**<b>

### <center><name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - Updated as at 1 November 1996 (HISTACT CHAP 3209 #DATE 01:11:1996) </name></center>
</b>** *1* The Environment Protection (Sea Dumping) Act 1981 as shown in this reprint comprises Act No. 101, 1981 amended as indicated in the Tables below.<lf>                             Table of Acts<lf>     Act             Date            Date of         Application<lf>     Number and      of assent       commencement    saving or<lf>     year                                            transitional<lf>                                                     provisions<lf>     Environment Protection (Sea Dumping) Act 1981<lf>     101, 1981       24 June 1981    6 Mar 1984 (see Gazette 1984, No.<lf>     S85)<lf>     Environment Protection (Sea Dumping) Amendment Act 1986<lf>     141, 1986       9 Dec 1986      6 Jan 1987      -<lf>     Arts, Territories and Environment Legislation Amendment Act 1989<lf>     60, 1989        19 June 1989    Ss. 11 and 13: 7 Dec 1988<lf>                                     Part 5 (ss. 14, 15): 11 May 1989<lf>                                     (see  s. 2 (3) and Gazette 1989,<lf>                                     No. S164)<lf>                                     Remainder: Royal Assent<lf>                                                     -<lf>     as amended by<lf>     Statute Law Revision Act 1996<lf>     43, 1996        25 Oct 1996     Schedule 3 (item 3):<lf>                                     19 June 1989 (a)          -<lf>     Arts, Sport, Environment and Territories Legislation Amendment Act<lf>     1992<lf>     21, 1992        10 Apr 1992     8 May 1992      -<lf>     Environment Protection (Sea Dumping) Amendment Act 1993<lf>     16, 1994        19 Jan 1994     19 Jan 1995      Ss. 4 (2)-(5)<lf>   (a) The Arts, Territories and Environment Legislation Amendment Act 1989 was amended by Schedule 3 (item 3) only of the Statute Law Revision Act 1996, subsection 2(3) of which provides as follows:<lf>   "(3) Each item in Schedule 3 is taken to have commenced when the Act containing the provision amended by the item received the Royal Assent."<lf>                             Table of Amendments<lf>     ad=added or inserted am=amended rep=repealed rs=repealed and substituted<lf>     Provision affected   How affected<lf>     Title                am. No. 141, 1986<lf>     S. 4                 am. No. 141, 1986; No. 16, 1994<lf>     S. 9                 am. No. 141, 1986; No. 60, 1989 (as am. by No. 43,                              1996); No. 16, 1994<lf>     Ss. 9A-9C            ad. No. 141, 1986<lf>     S. 9D                ad. No. 141, 1986<lf>                          am. No. 60, 1989; No. 16, 1994<lf>     S. 10                am. No. 141, 1986<lf>     S. 12                am. No. 141, 1986; No. 16, 1994<lf>     S. 13                am. No. 60, 1989; No. 16, 1994<lf>     S. 14                am. No. 141, 1986; No. 60, 1989; No. 16, 1994<lf>     S. 15                am. No. 141, 1986; No. 16, 1994<lf>     S. 16                am. No. 16, 1994<lf>     S. 17                am. No. 141, 1986; No. 60, 1989; No. 16, 1994<lf>     S. 19                am. No. 141, 1986; No. 16, 1994<lf>     S. 22                rep. No. 141, 1986<lf>     S. 24                am. No. 16, 1994<lf>     Ss. 28, 29           am. No. 16, 1994<lf>     S. 33                am. No. 141, 1986<lf>     Ss. 35, 36           am. No. 60, 1989; No. 16, 1994<lf>     S. 37                am. No. 141, 1986; No. 60, 1989; No. 16, 1994<lf>     S. 37A               ad. No. 60, 1989<lf>     S. 38                am. No. 60, 1989<lf>     S. 39                am. No. 21, 1992<lf>     S. 40                am. No. 60, 1989<lf>     S. 41                am. No. 60, 1989; No. 16, 1994<lf>     Schedule 4           ad. No. 16, 1994<lf> #ADD 21:2:1997 </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - TABLE OF PROVISIONS </name>
</b>** 

## TABLE
<tables> <tt>                      TABLE OF PROVISIONS<lf> Section<lf>     1\.    Short title<lf>     2\.    Commencement<lf>     3\.    Repeal<lf>     4\.    Interpretation<lf>     5\.    Exemption<lf>     6\.    Operation of Act<lf>     7\.    Act not to apply to Defence Force ships etc.<lf>     8\.    Act to bind the Crown<lf>     9\.    Declaration by Minister in relation to coastal waters of<lf>           a State etc.<lf>    9A.    Dumping of radioactive material prohibited<lf>    9B.    Loading of radioactive material for dumping prohibited<lf>    9C.    Incineration at sea of radioactive material prohibited<lf>    9D.    Penalties for offence relating to radioactive material<lf>    10\.    Dumping of wastes or other matter<lf>    11\.    Dumping of vessels etc.<lf>    12\.    Loading of wastes or other matter etc. for dumping etc.<lf>    13\.    Penalties for certain offences<lf>    14\.    Incineration at sea<lf>    15\.    Defences to charge of an offence<lf>    16\.    Restoration of environment<lf>    17\.    Liability for expenses incurred by the Commonwealth<lf>           resulting from dumping<lf>    18\.    Application for permit<lf>    19\.    Grant of permit<lf>    20\.    Suspension and revocation of permits<lf>    21\.    Conditions in respect of permits<lf>    23\.    Applications to Minister to vary operation of permits<lf>    24\.    Applications for review<lf>    25\.    Matters to be published in Gazette<lf>    26\.    Appointment of inspectors<lf>    27\.    Inspectors ex officio<lf>    28\.    Identity cards<lf>    29\.    Boarding of vessels etc. by inspectors<lf>    30\.    Access to premises<lf>    31\.    Functions of inspector<lf>    32\.    Powers of arrest of inspectors<lf>    33\.    Injunction<lf>    34\.    Delegation<lf>    35\.    False statements<lf>    36\.    Compliance with conditions of permit<lf>    37\.    Indictable offences<lf>   37A.    No time limit for prosecution<lf>    38\.    Evidence<lf>    39\.    Evidence of analyst<lf>    40\.    Fees<lf>    41\.    Regulations<lf>                              SCHEDULE 1<lf>             CONVENTION ON THE PREVENTION OF MARINE POLLUTION<lf>                  BY DUMPING OF WASTES AND OTHER MATTER<lf>                              SCHEDULE 2<lf>                  RESOLUTION ADOPTED ON 12 OCTOBER 1978<lf>                              SCHEDULE 3<lf>                 RESOLUTION ADOPTED ON 24 SEPTEMBER 1980<lf>                              SCHEDULE 4<lf>              PROTOCOL FOR THE PREVENTION OF POLLUTION OF THE<lf>                     SOUTH PACIFIC REGION BY DUMPING<lf> </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></tt></tables>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - LONG TITLE </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>     An Act providing for the protection of the environment by<lf>     regulating the dumping into the sea, and the incineration<lf>     at sea, of certain wastes and other matter and the dumping<lf>      into the sea of certain other objects and by prohibiting<lf>       the dumping into the sea, and the incineration at sea,<lf>         of radioactive material, and for related purposes<lf> </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 1 Short title </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   1\. This Act may be cited as the Environment Protection (Sea Dumping) Act 1981.*1* SEE NOTES TO FIRST ARTICLE OF THIS CHAPTER . </sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 2 Commencement </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   2\. This Act shall come into operation on a date to be fixed by Proclamation.*1* SEE NOTES TO FIRST ARTICLE OF THIS CHAPTER . </sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 3 Repeal </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   3\. The following Acts are repealed:<lf>   Beaches, Fishing Grounds and Sea Routes Protection Act 1932.<lf>   Beaches, Fishing Grounds and Sea Routes Protection Act 1961\. </lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 4 Interpretation </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   4\. (1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:<lf>   "Australian aircraft" means an aircraft that:<lf>   (a) is owned by:<lf>     (i) the Commonwealth or an authority of the Commonwealth;<lf>     (ii) a State or an authority of a State;<lf>     (iii) the Northern Territory or an authority of the Northern<lf> Territory; or<lf>     (iv) the Administration of Norfolk Island; or<lf>   (b) is registered in Australia;<lf>   "Australian fishing zone" has the same meaning as in the Fisheries Management Act 1991;<lf>   "Australian platform" means a platform that:<lf>   (a) is fixed to the continental shelf of Australia or of an external Territory or to the sea-bed beneath Australian waters; or<lf>   (b) is otherwise operating in that part of the sea above the continental shelf of Australia or of an external Territory or in Australian waters;<lf>   "Australian vessel" means a vessel that:<lf>   (a) is owned by:<lf>     (i) the Commonwealth or an authority of the Commonwealth;<lf>     (ii) a State or an authority of a State;<lf>     (iii) the Northern Territory or an authority of the Northern<lf> Territory; or<lf>     (iv) the Administration of Norfolk Island; or<lf>   (b) is registered in Australia or flying the Australian flag;<lf>   "Australian waters" means:<lf>   (a) the territorial sea of Australia and any sea that is on the landward side of the territorial sea of Australia, other than any part of the sea that is within the limits of a State or of the Northern Territory; or<lf>   (b) the territorial sea of an external Territory and any sea that is on the landward side of that territorial sea; or<lf>   (c) each area of sea that consists of that part of the Australian fishing zone adjacent to, and on the seaward side of, the territorial sea of Australia or the territorial sea of an external Territory; or<lf>   (d) any other area of sea:<lf>     (i) that is above the Australian continental shelf or the<lf> continental shelf of an external Territory; and<lf>     (ii) that does not form part of the Australian fishing zone;<lf> and includes any area of sea that is declared by the regulations to be included in Australian waters for the purposes of this Act;<lf>   "coastal waters" means:<lf>   (a) in relation to a State - that part of the sea that is included in the coastal waters of the State within the meaning of the Coastal Waters (State Powers) Act 1980; or<lf>   (b) in relation to the Northern Territory - that part of the sea that is included in the coastal waters of the Territory within the meaning of the Coastal Waters (Northern Territory Powers) Act 1980;<lf>   "continental shelf", in relation to Australia or to an external Territory, has the same meaning as it has for the purposes of the Seas and Submerged Lands Act 1973;<lf>   "Convention" means the Convention a copy of the English text of which is set out in Schedule 1, as amended by:<lf>   (a) the amendments set out in the Attachment to the Resolution a copy of the English text of which is set out in Schedule 2;<lf>   (b) the amendments set out in the Attachment to the Resolution a copy of the English text of which is set out in Schedule 3; and<lf>   (c) any other amendment to the Convention that is accepted by Australia and a copy of the English text of which is set out in the regulations;<lf>   "holder", in relation to a permit, means the person to whom the permit has been granted;<lf>   "inspector" means:<lf>   (a) a person appointed as an inspector under section 26; or<lf>   (b) a member of a police force who is an inspector by force of section 27;<lf>   "owner", in relation to a vessel, aircraft or platform, includes:<lf>   (a) every person who is a co-owner of the vessel, aircraft or platform or of any part of, or any share in, the vessel, aircraft or platform; and<lf>   (b) every person who has the use or control (whether alone or jointly with another person or other persons) of the vessel, aircraft or platform;<lf>   "permit" means a permit granted under section 19;<lf>   "person in charge" means:<lf>   (a) in relation to a vessel - the master or other person in charge of the vessel;<lf>   (b) in relation to an aircraft - the person in charge of the aircraft; or<lf>   (c) in relation to a platform - the person in charge of the operations conducted on or from the platform;<lf>   "platform" includes any man-made structure at sea, whether floating or fixed to the seabed, but does not include a vessel;<lf>   "radioactive material" means material that has an activity of more than 35 becquerels per gram;<lf>   "SPREP Protocol" means the Protocol for the Prevention of Pollution of the South Pacific Region by Dumping, a copy of the English text of which is set out in Schedule 4, as amended by any amendment to the SPREP Protocol that is accepted by Australia and a copy of the English text of which is set out in the regulations;<lf>   "territorial sea", in relation to Australia or to an external Territory, has the same meaning as it has for the purposes of the Seas and Submerged Lands Act 1973\. 

<lf>   (2) A reference in this Act to an offence shall be read as including a reference to an offence created by section 6, 7 or 7A of the Crimes Act 1914 in relation to this Act. <p><lf>   (3) A reference in this Act to a member of the Australian Federal Police or to a member of a police force shall be read as including a reference to a special member of the Australian Federal Police. <p><lf>   (4) Except so far as the contrary intention appears, an expression that is used both in this Act and in the Convention (whether or not a particular meaning is assigned to it by the Convention) has, in this Act, the same meaning as in the Convention. <p><lf>   (4A) Except so far as the contrary intention appears, an expression that is used both in this Act and in the SPREP Protocol (whether or not a particular meaning is assigned to it by the SPREP Protocol) has, in this Act, the same meaning as in the SPREP Protocol. <p><lf>   (5) For the purposes of this Act, where any matter or thing is disposed of from a vessel, an aircraft or a platform into part of the seabed or its subsoil, that matter or thing shall be taken to have been disposed of into the sea above that part. </lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf>
</lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 5 Exemption </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   5\. This Act does not apply in relation to the disposal of wastes or other matter directly arising from, or related to, the exploration, exploitation and associated off-shore processing, of seabed mineral resources. </sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 6 Operation of Act </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   6\. This Act applies both within and outside Australia and extends to every external Territory. </sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 7 Act not to apply to Defence Force ships etc. </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   7\. This Act does not apply in relation to a vessel, aircraft or platform belonging to an arm of the Defence Force or to the naval, military or air forces of a foreign country. </sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 8 Act to bind the Crown </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   8\. (1) This Act binds the Crown in right of the Commonwealth, of each of the States, of the Northern Territory and of Norfolk Island but nothing in this Act renders the Commonwealth, a State, the Northern Territory or the Administration of Norfolk Island liable to be prosecuted for an offence. 

<lf>   (2) Subsection (1) does not affect any liability of a person in charge of a vessel, aircraft or platform of which the Commonwealth, a State, the Northern Territory or the Administration of Norfolk Island is the owner to be prosecuted for an offence. </lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 9 Declaration by Minister in relation to coastal waters of a State etc. </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   9\. (1) Where the Minister is satisfied that the law of a State or of the Northern Territory will, on and after a particular date, make provision for giving effect to the Convention and the SPREP Protocol in relation to the coastal waters of that State or of the Northern Territory (whether or not the Convention and the SPREP Protocol extend to the whole of those coastal waters), the Minister may, by notice published in the Gazette, declare that, on and after that date:<lf>   (a) sections 10, 11, 14, 18, 19, 20, 21 and 23 do not apply in relation to the coastal waters of that State or of the Northern Territory, as the case may be; and<lf>   (b) section 12 does not apply in relation to the loading in, or in the coastal waters of, that State or in the coastal waters of, the Northern Territory, as the case may be, of any prescribed matter or thing within the meaning of subsection 12 (1) for the purpose of being dumped into, or incinerated at sea in, the coastal waters of that State or of the Northern Territory, as the case may be. 

<lf>   (2) Where a declaration is in force under subsection (1) in relation to the coastal waters of a State or of the Northern Territory, then, on and after the date specified in the declaration, a reference in this Act (other than section 9A, 9B, 9C, 9D, 12, 17 or 29) to Australian waters or to the sea shall be read as not including a reference to those coastal waters. <p><lf>   (3) If, at any time on or after the date specified in a declaration in force under subsection (1) in relation to the coastal waters of a State or of the Northern Territory, the Minister is satisfied that the law of the State or of the Northern Territory, as the case may be, does not make provision for giving effect to the Convention and the SPREP Protocol in relation to those coastal waters, the Minister may, by notice published in the Gazette, revoke the declaration. </lf></p></lf>
</lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 9A Dumping of radioactive material prohibited </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   9A. Where any radioactive material:<lf>   (a) is dumped into Australian waters from any vessel or aircraft; or<lf>   (b) is dumped into any part of the sea from any Australian vessel, Australian aircraft or Australian platform;<lf> the owner and the person in charge of the vessel, aircraft or platform and the owner of the material are each guilty of an offence against this section. </lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 9B Loading of radioactive material for dumping prohibited </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   9B. Where any radioactive material:<lf>   (a) is loaded on any vessel or aircraft in Australia or in Australian waters for the purpose of being dumped into the sea or being incinerated at sea; or<lf>   (b) is loaded on any Australian vessel or Australian aircraft in, or in the territorial sea of, a foreign country for the purpose of being dumped into the sea or being incinerated at sea;<lf> the owner and the person in charge of the vessel or aircraft and the owner of the material are each guilty of an offence against this section. </lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 9C Incineration at sea of radioactive material prohibited </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   9C. Where the incineration of radioactive material is carried out on:<lf>   (a) a vessel in Australian waters;<lf>   (b) an Australian vessel in any part of the sea; or<lf>   (c) an Australian platform;<lf> the owner and the person in charge of the vessel or platform and the owner of the material are each guilty of an offence against this section. </lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 9D Penalties for offence relating to radioactive material </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   9D. The penalty on conviction of an offence against section 9A, 9B or 9C is a fine not exceeding 500 penalty units. </sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 10 Dumping of wastes or other matter </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   10\. Where, otherwise than in accordance with a permit, any wastes or other matter (other than radioactive material):<lf>   (a) are, or is, dumped into Australian waters from any vessel or aircraft; or<lf>   (b) are, or is, dumped into any part of the sea from any Australian vessel, Australian aircraft or Australian platform;<lf> the owner and the person in charge of the vessel, aircraft or platform and the owner of the wastes or other matter are each guilty of an offence against this section. </lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 11 Dumping of vessels etc. </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   11\. Where, otherwise than in accordance with a permit:<lf>   (a) a vessel, aircraft or platform is dumped into Australian waters;<lf>   (b) an Australian vessel, Australian aircraft or Australian platform is dumped into any part of the sea; or<lf>   (c) a vessel, aircraft or platform is dumped into any part of the sea from an Australian vessel, Australian aircraft or Australian platform;<lf> the owner of the vessel, aircraft or platform that is so dumped is guilty of an offence against this section and, in addition, where the dumping takes place from a vessel, aircraft or platform, the owner and the person in charge of the vessel, aircraft or platform are each guilty of an offence against this section. </lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 12 Loading of wastes or other matter etc. for dumping etc. </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   12\. (1) Where, otherwise than in accordance with a permit, any prescribed matter or thing:<lf>   (a) is loaded on any vessel or aircraft in Australia or in Australian waters for the purpose of being dumped into the sea or being incinerated at sea; or<lf>   (b) is loaded on any Australian vessel or Australian aircraft in, or in the territorial sea of, a country that is not a party to the Convention for the purpose of being dumped into the sea or being incinerated at sea; or<lf>   (c) is loaded on any Australian vessel or Australian aircraft in, or in the territorial sea of, a country that is not a party to the SPREP Protocol for the purpose of being dumped into the sea;<lf> the owner and the person in charge of the vessel or aircraft and the owner of the prescribed matter or thing are each guilty of an offence against this section. 

<lf>   (2) In subsection (1), "prescribed matter or thing" means:<lf>   (a) any wastes or other matter (other than radioactive material); or<lf>   (b) any vessel, aircraft or platform. </lf></lf></lf>
</lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 13 Penalties for certain offences </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   13\. The penalty on conviction of an offence against section 10, 11 or 12 is a fine not exceeding:<lf>   (a) where the offence relates to wastes or other matter to which Annex I to the Convention applies - 500 penalty units; or<lf>   (b) where the offence relates to wastes or other matter to which Annex II to the Convention applies - 250 penalty units; or<lf>   (ba) if the offence relates to wastes or other matter to which Annex I to the SPREP Protocol applies but neither Annex I nor II to the Convention applies - 500 penalty units; or<lf>   (c) in any other case - 100 penalty units. </lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 14 Incineration at sea </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   14\. (1) This section applies to incineration at sea carried out on:<lf>   (a) a vessel in Australian waters;<lf>   (b) an Australian vessel in any part of the sea; or<lf>   (c) an Australian platform. 

<lf>   (2) The incineration at sea of wastes or other matter listed in paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 7 of Annex I to the Convention, being incineration to which this section applies, is prohibited. <p><lf>   (3) The incineration at sea, otherwise than in accordance with a permit, of wastes or other matter listed in paragraphs 1 and 5 of Annex I to the Convention, being incineration to which this section applies, is prohibited. <p><lf>   (4) The incineration at sea, otherwise than in accordance with a permit, of wastes or other matter listed in Annex II (other than radioactive material), being incineration to which this section applies, is prohibited. <p><lf>   (5) The incineration at sea, otherwise than in accordance with a permit, of any wastes or other matter (other than wastes or other matter to which subsection (2), (3) or (4) applies or radioactive material), being incineration to which this section applies, is prohibited. <p><lf>   (6) The owner and the person in charge of a vessel or platform on which incineration at sea in contravention of this section is carried out and the owner of the wastes or other matter so incinerated are each guilty of an offence against this section punishable, on conviction, by a fine not exceeding:<lf>   (a) where the incineration was in contravention of subsection (2) - 500 penalty units; or<lf>   (b) where the incineration was in contravention of subsection (3) - 400 penalty units; or<lf>   (c) where the incineration was in contravention of subsection (4) - 250 penalty units; or<lf>   (d) where the incineration was in contravention of subsection (5) - 100 penalty units. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf>
</lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 15 Defences to charge of an offence </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   15\. (1) Subject to subsection (2), it is a defence to a charge of an offence against section 10, 11, 12 or 14 if the person charged proves:<lf>   (a) that the incineration the subject of the charge was carried out in accordance with a permit granted in accordance with the Convention by a country (other than Australia) that was a party to the Convention; or<lf>   (b) if the wastes or other matter to which the charge relates are wastes or matter to which the SPREP Protocol but not the Convention apply - that the dumping or loading the subject of the charge  was carried out in accordance with a permit granted in accordance with the SPREP Protocol by a country (other than Australia) that was a party to the SPREP Protocol; or<lf>   (c) if the wastes or other matter to which the charge relates are wastes or matter to which both the Convention and the SPREP Protocol apply - that the dumping or loading the subject of the charge was carried out in accordance with a permit granted in accordance with the Convention and the SPREP Protocol by a country (other than Australia) that was a party to the Convention and the SPREP Protocol; or<lf>   (d) if the wastes or other matter to which the charge relates are wastes or matter to which both the Convention and the SPREP Protocol apply - that the dumping or loading the subject of the charge was carried out in accordance with a permit granted in accordance with the Convention by a country (other than Australia) that:<lf>     (i) was a party to the Convention; but<lf>     (ii) was not a party to the SPREP Protocol; or<lf>   (e) if the wastes or other matter to which the charge relates are wastes or matter to which both the Convention and the SPREP Protocol apply - that the dumping or loading the subject of the charge was carried out in accordance with a permit granted in accordance with the SPREP Protocol by a country (other than Australia) that:<lf>     (i) was a party to the SPREP Protocol; but<lf>     (ii) was not a party to the Convention.<lf> 

<lf>   (2) The defence set out in subsection (1):<lf>   (a) does not apply in relation to an offence against section 10, 11 or 14 if the offence relates to dumping or incineration in Australian waters; and<lf>   (b) does not apply in relation to a charge of an offence against section 12 if the offence relates to loading wastes or other matter for the purpose of dumping them or it into Australian waters. <p><lf>   (3) It is a defence to a charge of an offence against section 9A, 10 or 11 if the person charged proves that:<lf>   (a) the dumping the subject of the charge was necessary to secure the safety of human life, or of a vessel, aircraft or platform, at sea in a case of force majeure  caused by stress of weather; or<lf>   (b) the dumping the subject of the charge appeared to be the only way of averting a threat to human life, or to the safety of a vessel, aircraft or platform, at sea and there was every probability that the damage caused by such dumping would be less than would otherwise occur;<lf> and, in either case, that:<lf>   (c) the dumping was so conducted as to minimize the likelihood of damage to human or marine life; and<lf>   (d) a report of the dumping, setting out the prescribed information, was furnished to the Minister as soon as practicable after the occurrence of the dumping. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></lf></lf>
</lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 16 Restoration of environment </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   16\. Where:<lf>   (a) wastes or other matter are or is, or a vessel, aircraft or platform is, dumped into Australian waters; and<lf>   (b) the Minister considers that that dumping is likely to:<lf>     (i) cause an obstruction, or constitute a danger, to vessels;<lf>     (ii) result in harm to human or marine life; or<lf>     (iii) result in interference with the exercise of the sovereign<lf> rights of Australia as a coastal State to explore, and exploit the natural resources of, the seabed and subsoil beneath Australian waters;<lf> the Minister may cause to be taken such steps as he thinks proper to repair or remedy any condition, or to mitigate any damage, arising from that dumping. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 17 Liability for expenses incurred by the Commonwealth resulting from dumping </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   17\. (1) Where:<lf>   (a) a person has been convicted of an offence against section 9A, 10 or 11; and<lf>   (b) by reason of the exercise by the Minister of his powers under section 16, the Commonwealth has incurred expenses or other liabilities in repairing or remedying any condition, or mitigating any damage, arising from the dumping that constituted the offence;<lf> a person so convicted is liable to pay to the Commonwealth an amount equal to the total amount of those expenses and liabilities of the Commonwealth and that amount may be recovered, as a debt due to the Commonwealth by the person, by action in a court of competent jurisdiction. 

<lf>   (2) Where 2 or more persons have been convicted of offences referred to in subsection (1) in respect of the same act of dumping, the Commonwealth is not, by virtue of that subsection, entitled to recover from those persons amounts that, in the aggregate, exceed the total amount of the expenses and liabilities incurred by the Commonwealth, by reason of the exercise by the Minister of his powers under section 16, as a result of that dumping. <p><lf>   (3) Subject to subsection (4), where the owner of a vessel, aircraft or Australian platform:<lf>   (a) has been convicted of an offence against section 9A, 10 or 11 with respect to dumping from the vessel, aircraft or platform; and<lf>   (b) is liable by virtue of subsection (1) of this section to pay an amount to the Commonwealth in respect of that offence;<lf> that amount is a charge upon the vessel, aircraft or platform, as the case may be, and, in the case of a vessel or aircraft, the vessel or aircraft may be detained by an inspector until the amount is paid or security for the payment of the amount is provided to the satisfaction of the Minister. <p><lf>   (4) Subsection (3) does not entitle a person to detain a vessel or aircraft unless the vessel or aircraft:<lf>   (a) is an Australian vessel or Australian aircraft, as the case may be; or<lf>   (b) is in Australia or an external Territory or in Australian waters. <p><lf>   (5) Where:<lf>   (a) a vessel that has been detained under subsection (3) goes to sea before it is released from detention; or<lf>   (b) an aircraft that has been detained under subsection (3) leaves Australia or an external Territory before it is released from detention;<lf> the master and owner of the vessel or aircraft, as the case may be, are each guilty of an offence against this subsection punishable, upon conviction:<lf>   (c) in the case of the master - by imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years; or<lf>    (d) in the case of the owner - by imprisonment for a term not<lf> exceeding 2 years. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf>
</lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 18 Application for permit </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   18\. (1) A person may make an application to the Minister for the grant of a permit required for the purposes of this Act. 

<lf>   (2) An application for a permit shall be made in accordance with the appropriate form approved by the Minister from time to time. <p><lf>   (3) Where an application is made for the grant of a permit and the Minister requires further information for the purpose of enabling him to deal with the application, he may, by notice in writing served on the applicant not later than 60 days after the application is made, require the applicant to furnish to the Minister, as specified in the notice, a statement in writing setting out that further information and, if a notice is so served, the application shall be deemed, for the purposes of section 19, not to have been duly made until the statement is furnished. <p><lf>   (4) Where, in his preliminary consideration of an application for a permit for dumping, the Minister forms the view that, in order to enable him to decide whether a permit should be granted or not, or to formulate conditions that should be imposed in respect of a permit if a permit is granted, it will be necessary for research or analysis to be undertaken to determine the effect that the proposed dumping may have on the marine environment, the Minister, before giving further consideration to the application, may require the applicant to enter into an agreement with the Commonwealth that includes provisions of any, or all, of the following kinds:<lf>   (a) a provision that the applicant will, at his own expense, undertake such research or analysis as is specified in the agreement, being research or analysis relating to the effect that the proposed dumping might have on the marine environment;<lf>   (b) a provision that the applicant will reimburse the Commonwealth the amount, as ascertained by the Minister, of any expense incurred by the Commonwealth in undertaking research or analysis of a kind referred to in paragraph (a);<lf>   (c) a provision that the applicant will reimburse the Commonwealth the amount, as ascertained by the Minister, of any expense incurred by the Commonwealth in supervising any research or analysis undertaken by the applicant in accordance with the agreement;<lf>   (d) a provision that, if the applicant fails, or neglects, to carry out any research or analysis as required by the agreement:<lf>     (i) the Commonwealth may undertake the necessary research or<lf> analysis, as the case may be; and<lf>     (ii) in that event, the applicant will reimburse the<lf> Commonwealth the amount, as ascertained by the Minister, of the expense incurred by the Commonwealth in connection with such undertaking;<lf>   (e) a provision that the applicant is to give a security to the Commonwealth for the payment of any amount that he may become liable to pay to the Commonwealth under the agreement;<lf>   (f) a provision that the applicant will report to the Minister the results of any research or analysis undertaken by him in accordance with the agreement. <p><lf>   (5) Where an applicant is required under subsection (4) to enter into an agreement with the Commonwealth providing for the undertaking of research or analysis as specified in the agreement, his application shall be deemed, for the purposes of section 19, not to have been duly made until the research or analysis, as the case may be, has been completed to the satisfaction of the Minister. </lf></p></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 19 Grant of permit </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   19\. (1) Subject to this section, the Minister may, in his discretion, grant, or refuse to grant, a permit to a person who has made an application in accordance with section 18\. 

<lf>   (2) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), the Minister shall give a decision under subsection (1) on an application for a permit within 90 days after the application is made. <p><lf>   (3) Where, within 90 days after an application for a permit is made, the Minister administering the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 directs that an inquiry be held under section 11 of that Act in relation to the conduct in respect of which the application is made, the Minister administering this Act shall give a decision under subsection (1) of this section on that application:<lf>   (a) within 30 days after a report in relation to that inquiry is furnished under subsection 11 (4) of that Act; or<lf>   (b) within 90 days after the application is made;<lf> whichever period is the last to end. <p><lf>   (4) Where:<lf>   (a) within 90 days after an application for a permit is made, the Minister administering the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974, in accordance with procedures approved for the purposes of that Act, directs the submission to him of an environmental impact statement in relation to the conduct in respect of which the application is made; and<lf>   (b) subsection (3) is not applicable;<lf> the Minister administering this Act shall give a decision under subsection (1) on the application:<lf>   (c) within 30 days after the completion of all procedures under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 in connection with the environmental impact statement referred to in paragraph (a); or<lf>   (d) within 90 days after the application is made;<lf> whichever period is the last to end. <p><lf>   (5) A permit for dumping or loading shall not be granted in respect of any wastes or other matter to which Annex I to the Convention applies except where, in the opinion of the Minister, there is an emergency posing an unacceptable risk relating to human health and admitting of no other feasible solution. <p><lf>   (5A) A permit for dumping or loading must not be granted in respect of any wastes or other matter to which Annex I to the SPREP Protocol applies except if, in the Minister's opinion, there is an emergency posing an unacceptable risk relating to human health and admitting of no other feasible solution. <p><lf>   (6) In considering the granting of a permit for dumping or loading, the Minister shall have regard to:<lf>   (aa) any treaty or convention to which Australia is a party that relates to the dumping of matter or to the loading of matter for the purpose of dumping or incineration at sea;<lf>   (a) the factors set forth in Annex III to the Convention;<lf>   (b) in a case to which Section B of Annex II to the Convention applies - the matters set out in that Section; and<lf>   (c) in a case to which Section D of Annex II to the Convention applies - any recommendations referred to in that Section. <p><lf>   (6A) In considering the granting of a permit for incineration at sea of wastes or other matter not listed in Annex I or II to the Convention, the Minister must have regard to any treaty or other convention to which Australia is a party that relates to the incineration at sea of those wastes or that other matter. <p><lf>   (7) A permit for incineration at sea of wastes or other matter listed in Annex I to the Convention shall not be granted except in accordance with the Regulations for the Control of Incineration of Wastes and Other Matter at Sea set forth in the Addendum to that Annex and, in considering the granting of such a permit, the Minister shall take full account of the Technical Guidelines on the Control of Incineration of Wastes and Other Matter at Sea adopted by the Contracting Parties to the Convention in consultation. <p><lf>   (8) A permit for incineration at sea of wastes or other matter listed in Annex II to the Convention shall not be granted except in accordance with the Regulations for the Control of Incineration of Wastes and Other Matter at Sea set forth in the Addendum to Annex I, to the extent that those regulations are applicable, and, in considering the granting of such a permit, the Minister shall take full account of the Technical Guidelines on the Control of Incineration of Wastes and Other Matter at Sea adopted by the Contracting Parties to the Convention in consultation, to the extent that those guidelines are applicable. <p><lf>   (9) Before granting a permit for dumping, the Minister may require the applicant to enter into an agreement with the Commonwealth that includes provisions of any, or all, of the following kinds:<lf>   (a) a provision that the applicant will, at his own expense, undertake such research and monitoring as is specified in the agreement, being research and monitoring relating to the consequences of the release into the marine environment through the proposed dumping operation of any contaminants;<lf>   (b) a provision that the applicant will investigate, as specified in the agreement, the possibility of avoiding or reducing the need for further dumping by him;<lf>   (c) a provision that the applicant will reimburse the Commonwealth the amount, as ascertained by the Minister, of any expense incurred by the Commonwealth in undertaking research, monitoring or investigation of a kind referred to in a preceding paragraph;<lf>   (d) a provision that the applicant will reimburse the Commonwealth the amount, as ascertained by the Minister, of any expense incurred by the Commonwealth in supervising any research, monitoring or investigation undertaken by the applicant in accordance with the agreement;<lf>   (e) a provision that, if the applicant fails, or neglects, to carry out any research, monitoring or investigation as required by the agreement:<lf>     (i) the Commonwealth may undertake the necessary research,<lf> monitoring or investigation, as the case may be; and<lf>     (ii) in that event, the applicant will reimburse the<lf> Commonwealth the amount, as ascertained by the Minister, of the expense incurred by the Commonwealth in connection with such undertaking;<lf>   (f) a provision that the applicant is to give a security to the Commonwealth for the payment of any amount that he may become liable to pay to the Commonwealth under the agreement;<lf>   (g) a provision that the applicant will report to the Minister the results of any research, monitoring or investigation undertaken by him in accordance with the agreement. <p><lf>   (10) A permit granted under this section shall be expressed, in accordance with the Convention or the STREP Protocol, as the case requires, to be either a general permit or a special permit. <p><lf>   (11) Nothing in this Act shall be read as implying:<lf>   (a) that a permit for dumping or loading may be granted in respect of radioactive material; or<lf>   (b) that a permit for incineration at sea of radioactive material may be granted. </lf></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 20 Suspension and revocation of permits </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   20\. (1) The Minister may, at any time, by notice in writing served on the holder of a permit, vary, suspend or revoke the permit where he is satisfied that:<lf>   (a) a provision of this Act relating to the permit or a condition imposed in respect of the permit has been contravened; or<lf>   (b) it is necessary or expedient to do so in order properly to regulate the activities with which this Act is concerned. 

<lf>   (2) A suspension of a permit may be of indefinite duration or for a period specified in the notice. <p><lf>   (3) Where proceedings for an offence in relation to a permit are commenced during a period of suspension of the permit, the suspension may be continued until the proceedings (including any appeal) are completed. <p><lf>   (4) During the period of suspension of a permit, the permit has no force or effect, but the period of currency of the permit continues to run. <p><lf>   (5) The suspension of a permit does not prevent its revocation. <p><lf>   (6) The revocation or suspension of a permit takes effect when notice of the revocation or suspension, as the case may be, is served on the holder of the permit or on such later date (if any) as is specified in the notice. </lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf>
</lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 21 Conditions in respect of permits </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   21\. (1) The Minister may, when granting a permit or at any time while a permit is in force, impose conditions in respect of the permit and may, at any time, revoke, suspend or vary, or cancel a suspension of, a condition so imposed. 

<lf>   (2) A condition imposed in respect of a permit, or a revocation, suspension or variation, or a cancellation of a suspension, of such a condition, takes effect when notice of the condition or of the revocation, suspension or variation or of the cancellation of the suspension is served on the holder of the permit or on such later date (if any) as is specified in the notice. </lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 23 Applications to Minister to vary operation of permits </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   23\. (1) The holder of a permit may make application to the Minister for the revocation or variation of a condition imposed in respect of the permit. 

<lf>   (2) The holder of a permit that is suspended may make application to the Minister for the cancellation of that suspension. <p><lf>   (3) The Minister shall, within 60 days after the receipt of an application under subsection (1) or (2):<lf>   (a) if he is satisfied that the application should be granted:<lf>     (i) revoke the condition;<lf>     (ii) vary the condition in accordance with the application; or<lf>     (iii) cancel the suspension of the permit;<lf> as the case may be; or<lf>   (b) if he is not so satisfied - refuse to grant the application. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 24 Applications for review </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   24\. (1) Applications may be made to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for review of decisions by the Minister under section 19, 20, 21 or 23\. 

<lf>   (2) Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to:<lf>   (a) a decision by the Minister under section 19 in connection with an application for a permit where an inquiry has been directed to be held under section 11 of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 in relation to the conduct in respect of which the application is made; or<lf>   (b) a decision by the Minister under section 19 refusing to grant a permit on the ground that such a refusal is required to comply with subsection 19 (5) or (5A). </lf></lf></lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 25 Matters to be published in Gazette </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   25\. The Minister shall cause to be published in the Gazette particulars of:<lf>   (a) applications for permits;<lf>   (b) permits granted and any conditions imposed in respect of those permits;<lf>   (c) refusals to grant permits;<lf>   (d) any revocation, suspension, or cancellation of the suspension, of a permit; and<lf>   (e) any revocation, suspension or variation, or any cancellation of a suspension, of a condition imposed in respect of a permit. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 26 Appointment of inspectors </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   26\. The Minister may, by instrument in writing, appoint a person as an inspector. </sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 27 Inspectors ex officio </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   27\. By force of this section, any member of the Australian Federal Police or of the police force of a Territory is an inspector. </sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 28 Identity cards </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   28\. (1) The Minister may cause to be issued to an inspector, other than a member of a police force, an identity card in a form approved by the Minister. 

<lf>   (2) Where a person in possession of an identity card issued to him under subsection (1) ceases to be an inspector, he shall forthwith return the identity card to the Minister.<lf> Penalty: One penalty unit. </lf></lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 29 Boarding of vessels etc. by inspectors </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   29\. (1) This section applies to:<lf>   (a) any Australian vessel, Australian aircraft or Australian platform;<lf>   (b) any vessel or any aircraft that is in Australia or an external Territory; and<lf>   (c) any vessel, or any aircraft capable of landing on water, that is in Australian waters. 

<lf>   (2) An inspector may, with such assistance as he thinks necessary, board any vessel, aircraft or platform to which this section applies for the purpose of exercising the functions of an inspector in accordance with section 31 if he believes on reasonable grounds that there is in, or on, that vessel, aircraft or platform:<lf>   (a) any matter or thing that is to be dumped into the sea or incinerated at sea; or<lf>   (b) any matter or thing that may afford evidence as to the commission of an offence against this Act;<lf> and, in the case of a vessel or aircraft, may, for that purpose, stop and detain that vessel or aircraft. <p><lf>   (3) An inspector may require any person on board a vessel, aircraft or platform to which this section applies whom he finds committing, or whom he suspects on reasonable grounds of having committed, an offence against this Act to state his full name and usual place of residence. <p><lf>   (4) Where an inspector believes on reasonable grounds that a vessel to which this section applies and that is in Australian waters has been used or otherwise involved in the commission of an offence against this Act, he may bring, or require the person in charge of the vessel to bring, the vessel to the nearest port in Australia or an external Territory to which it is safe and practicable to bring the vessel. <p><lf>   (5) An inspector may, for the purposes of this Act, require the person in charge of a vessel, aircraft or platform to which this section applies to give information concerning the vessel, aircraft or platform and her crew and any other person on board the vessel, aircraft or platform. <p><lf>   (6) Where an inspector (other than a member of a police force who is in uniform) boards a vessel, aircraft or platform to which this section applies, he shall:<lf>   (a) in the case of a member of a police force - produce, for inspection by the person in charge of that vessel, aircraft or platform, written evidence of the fact that he is a member of that police force; or<lf>   (b) in any other case - produce his identity card for inspection by that person;<lf> and, if he fails to do so, he is not authorized to remain, or to require any person assisting him to remain, on board that vessel, aircraft or platform or to detain that vessel or aircraft. <p><lf>   (7) Where an inspector (other than a member of a police force who is in uniform) makes a requirement of a person under this section, the inspector shall:<lf>   (a) in the case of a member of a police force - produce, for inspection by that person, written evidence of the fact that he is a member of that police force; or<lf>   (b) in any other case - produce his identity card for inspection by that person;<lf> and, if he fails to do so, that person is not obliged to comply with the requirement. <p><lf>   (8) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a requirement made of him by an inspector under this section is guilty of an offence punishable on conviction by a fine not exceeding 20 penalty units. </lf></p></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></lf></lf></lf>
</lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 30 Access to premises </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   30\. (1) An inspector may, with the consent of the occupier of any premises, enter the premises for the purpose of exercising the functions of an inspector in accordance with section 31\. 

<lf>   (2) Where an inspector has reason to believe that there is on premises:<lf>   (a) any matter or thing that is to be dumped into the sea or incinerated at sea; or<lf>   (b) any matter or thing that may afford evidence as to the commission of an offence against this Act;<lf> the inspector may make application to a Justice of the Peace for a warrant authorizing the inspector to enter the premises for the purpose of exercising the functions of an inspector in accordance with section 31\. <p><lf>   (3) If, on an application under subsection (2), the Justice of the Peace is satisfied, by information on oath or affirmation:<lf>   (a) that there is reasonable ground for believing that there is on the premises to which the application relates:<lf>     (i) any matter or thing that is to be dumped into the sea or<lf> incinerated at sea; or<lf>     (ii) any matter or thing that may afford evidence as to the<lf> commission of an offence against this Act; and<lf>   (b) that the issue of the warrant is reasonably required for the purposes of this Act;<lf> the Justice of the Peace may grant a warrant authorizing the inspector, with such assistance as he thinks necessary, to enter the premises, during such hours of the day or night as the warrant specifies or, if the warrant so specifies, at any time, if necessary by force, for the purpose of exercising the functions of an inspector in accordance with section 31\. <p><lf>   (4) Where an inspector has entered any premises in pursuance of subsection (1) or in pursuance of a warrant granted under subsection (3), he may exercise the functions of an inspector in accordance with section 31\. </lf></p></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></lf></lf></lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 31 Functions of inspector </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   31\. (1) The functions of an inspector who boards a vessel, aircraft or platform under section 29 or enters premises under section 30 are as follows:<lf>   (a) to search for, and take possession of, any matter or thing that may afford evidence as to the commission of an offence against this Act;<lf>   (b) to search for, inspect, take extracts from and make copies of any document that relates to the loading, dumping or incineration at sea of any matter or thing;<lf>   (c) to inspect, and take samples of, any wastes or other matter;<lf>   (d) to observe:<lf>     (i) the loading on a vessel or aircraft, in accordance with a<lf> permit, of any matter or thing that is to be dumped into the sea or incinerated at sea; or<lf>     (ii) the dumping into the sea, or the incineration at sea, in<lf> accordance with a permit, of any matter or thing. 

<lf>   (2) For the purposes of carrying out his functions under subsection (1), an inspector may break open any hold or compartment, or any container or other receptacle, on a vessel, aircraft or platform or on any premises. </lf>
</lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 32 Powers of arrest of inspectors </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   32\. (1) An inspector may, without warrant, arrest any person, if the inspector believes on reasonable grounds that:<lf>   (a) the person is committing or has committed an offence against this Act; and<lf>   (b) proceedings against the person by summons would not be effective. 

<lf>   (2) Where an inspector (other than a member of a police force who is in uniform) arrests a person under subsection (1), the inspector shall:<lf>   (a) in the case of a member of a police force - produce, for inspection by that person, written evidence of the fact that he is a member of that police force; or<lf>   (b) in any other case - produce his identity card for inspection by that person. <p><lf>   (3) Where a person is arrested under subsection (1), an inspector shall forthwith bring the person, or cause him to be brought, before a Justice of the Peace or other proper authority to be dealt with in accordance with law. <p><lf>   (4) Nothing in this section prevents the arrest of a person in accordance with any other law. </lf></p></lf></p></lf></lf></lf>
</lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 33 Injunction </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   33\. (1) A prescribed court of a State or Territory may:<lf>   (a) upon application by the Attorney-General or by an interested person, grant an injunction restraining a person from engaging in conduct that constitutes, or would constitute, an offence against section 9A, 9B, 9C, 10, 11, 12 or 14; and<lf>   (b) make any order incidental or supplementary to an order made on an application under paragraph (a), including an order as to costs. 

<lf>   (2) The reference in paragraph (1) (a) to an interested person shall be read as including a reference to a person whose use or enjoyment of any part of the sea, or of the air space above, or of the seabed or subsoil beneath, any part of the sea, is, or is likely to be, adversely affected by the conduct concerned. <p><lf>   (3) The reference in paragraph (1) (a) to engaging in conduct shall be read as including a reference to:<lf>   (a) doing, refusing to do or refraining from doing, any act or thing; or<lf>   (b) causing or permitting another person to do, refuse to do or refrain from doing, any act or thing. <p><lf>   (4) Each prescribed court of a State is invested with federal jurisdiction, and jurisdiction is conferred, to the extent that the Constitution permits, on each prescribed court of a Territory, to hear and to determine proceedings instituted in that court under this section. <p><lf>   (5) In this section, "prescribed court", in relation to a State or Territory, means a court of the State or Territory that is declared by the regulations to be a prescribed court in relation to the State or Territory, as the case may be, for the purposes of this section. </lf></p></lf></p></lf></lf></lf></p></lf>
</lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 34 Delegation </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   34\. (1) The Minister may, either generally or as otherwise provided by the instrument of delegation, by writing signed by him, delegate to a person all or any of his powers under this Act, other than this power of delegation. 

<lf>   (2) A power so delegated, when exercised by the delegate, shall, for the purposes of this Act, be deemed to have been exercised by the Minister. <p><lf>   (3) A delegation under this section does not prevent the exercise of a power by the Minister. </lf></p></lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 35 False statements </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   35\. (1) A person who, in, or in connection with, an application for a permit:<lf>   (a) makes a statement that, to his knowledge, is false or misleading in a material particular; or<lf>   (b) furnishes to an officer or other person doing duty in relation to this Act a document that, to the knowledge of the first-mentioned person, contains information that is false or misleading in a material particular;<lf> is guilty of an offence against this subsection punishable, on conviction by imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years. 

<lf>   (2) A person who:<lf>   (a) makes to an inspector doing duty in relation to this Act a statement that, to the knowledge of the person, is false or misleading in a material particular; or<lf>   (b) furnishes to an inspector doing duty in relation to this Act a document that, to the knowledge of the person, contains information that is false or misleading in a material particular;<lf> is guilty of an offence against this subsection punishable, on conviction, by a fine not exceeding 10 penalty units. </lf></lf></lf></lf>
</lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 36 Compliance with conditions of permit </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   36\. The holder of a permit who contravenes, or fails to comply with, a condition imposed in respect of the permit is guilty of an offence punishable, on conviction, by a fine not exceeding:<lf>   (a) if the person is a natural person - 50 penalty units; or<lf>   (b) if the person is a body corporate - 500 penalty units. </lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 37 Indictable offences </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   37\. (1) An offence against section 9A, 9B, 9C, 10, 11, 12 or 14 or subsection 17 (5) or 35 (1) is an indictable offence. 

<lf>   (2) Notwithstanding that an offence referred to in subsection (1) is an indictable offence, a court of summary jurisdiction may hear and determine proceedings in respect of such an offence if the court is satisfied that it is proper to do so and the defendant and the prosecutor consent. <p><lf>   (3) Where, in accordance with subsection (2), a court of summary jurisdiction convicts a person of an offence against section 9A, 9B, 9C, 10, 11, 12 or 14 or subsection 17 (5), the penalty that the court may impose is a fine not exceeding 20 penalty units. <p><lf>   (4) Where, in accordance with subsection (2), a court of summary jurisdiction convicts a person of an offence against subsection 35 (1), the penalty that the court may impose is imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months. <p><lf>   (5) For the purposes of this section, an offence created by section 7 of the Crimes Act 1914 shall, to the extent that it relates to an offence against a provision referred to in subsection (1), be deemed to be an offence against that provision. </lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 37A No time limit for prosecution </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   37A. A prosecution for an offence against this Act may be brought at any time. </sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 38 Evidence </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   38\. (1) In any proceedings for an offence against this Act:<lf>   (a) any record kept in pursuance of the regulations is admissible as prima facie evidence of the facts stated in the record;<lf>   (b) a copy of an entry in such a record, being a copy certified by the person by whom the record is required to be kept to be a true copy of the entry, is admissible as prima facie evidence of the facts stated in the entry; and<lf>   (c) a document purporting to be a record kept in pursuance of the regulations, or purporting to be such a certified copy as is referred to in paragraph (b), shall, unless the contrary is established, be deemed to be such a record or certified copy, as the case may be. 

<lf>   (2) In any proceedings for an offence against this Act, evidence of the result of finding out a distance or position by means of an electronic, optical or other device ordinarily used for finding out such a distance or position is prima facie evidence of the distance or position. <p><lf>   (3) In any proceedings for an offence against this Act, evidence by an inspector that he or she believes that a place or area is within Australian waters is prima facie evidence that the place or area is within Australian waters. <p><lf>   (4) The Minister may give a certificate:<lf>   (a) that a permit was granted to a specified person on a specified day;<lf>   (b) that a specified permit contained specified terms;<lf>   (c) that specified conditions were imposed in respect of a specified permit;<lf>   (d) that a specified condition imposed in respect of a specified permit was revoked, suspended or varied on a specified day;<lf>   (e) that the suspension of a specified condition imposed in respect of a specified permit was cancelled on a specified day; or<lf>   (f) that a specified notice containing specified terms was served on the holder of a specified permit on a specified day;<lf> and the certificate is prima facie evidence of the matters stated in it. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf>
</lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 39 Evidence of analyst </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   39\. (1) The Minister may appoint a person to be an analyst for the purposes of this Act. 

<lf>   (2) Subject to subsection (4), a certificate signed by an analyst appointed under subsection (1) setting out, in relation to a substance, one or more of the following:<lf>   (a) that he or she is appointed as the analyst under subsection (1);<lf>   (b) when and from whom the substance was received;<lf>   (c) what labels or other means of identification accompanied the substance when it was received;<lf>   (d) what container the substance was in when it was received;<lf>   (e) a description, including the weight, of the substance when it was received;<lf>   (f) the name of any method used to analyse the substance or any portion of it;<lf>   (g) the results of any such analysis;<lf>   (h) how the substance was dealt with after handling by the analyst, including details of:<lf>     (i) the quantity of the substance retained after analysis; and<lf>     (ii) names of any person to whom any of the retained substance<lf> was given after analysis; and<lf>     (iii) measures taken to secure any retained quantity of the<lf> substance after analysis;<lf> is admissible in any proceeding for an offence against this Act as prima facie evidence of the matters in the certificate and the correctness of the results of the analysis. <p><lf>   (3) For the purposes of this section, a document purporting to be a certificate referred to in subsection (2) shall, unless the contrary is established, be deemed to be such a certificate and to have been duly given. <p><lf>   (4) A certificate shall not be admitted in evidence in pursuance of subsection (2) in proceedings for an offence unless the person charged with the offence has been given a copy of the certificate together with reasonable notice of the intention to produce the certificate as evidence in the proceedings. </lf></p></lf></p></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 40 Fees </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   40\. (1) The regulations may prescribe the fees to be paid in respect of an application for a permit or of any other application under this Act. 

<lf>   (2) A fee prescribed in respect of an application under this Act shall be paid when the application is made or at such other time (if any) as is prescribed and, if the fee is not so paid, the application shall be deemed not to be duly made. <p><lf>   (3) The Minister may, if he considers it necessary or desirable to do so, waive or remit the payment of any fee payable in respect of an application and, if he does so, subsection (2) does not apply in relation to that application. <p><lf>   (4) The Minister may, if he or she considers it necessary or desirable to do so, waive or remit the payment of part of any fee payable in respect of an application and, if the Minister does so, the fee prescribed in respect of the application shall, for the purposes of subsection (2), be taken to be reduced by the amount waived or remitted. </lf></p></lf></p></lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SECT 41 Regulations </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   41\. (1) The Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act, prescribing all matters required or permitted by this Act to be prescribed, or necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Act and, in particular:<lf>   (a) providing for the manner of service of notices under this Act; and<lf>   (b) providing for the imposition of penalties not exceeding 10 penalty units. 

<lf>   (2) Regulations under subsection (1) may declare that a specified area of sea on the seaward side of the territorial sea of Australia or the territorial sea of an external Territory is included in Australian waters for the purposes of this Act. </lf>
</lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SCHEDULE 1 </name>
</b>** 

## SCH
<sch>                            SCHEDULE 1                  Section 4<lf>     CONVENTION ON THE PREVENTION OF MARINE POLLUTION BY DUMPING<lf>                   OF WASTES AND OTHER MATTER<lf> THE CONTRACTING PARTIES TO THIS CONVENTION,<lf> RECOGNIZING that the marine environment and the living<lf> organisms which it supports are of vital importance to humanity,<lf> and all people have an interest in assuring that it is so<lf> managed that its quality and resources are not impaired;<lf> RECOGNIZING that the capacity of the sea to assimilate<lf> wastes and render them harmless, and its ability to regenerate<lf> natural resources, is not unlimited;<lf> RECOGNIZING that States have, in accordance with the Charter<lf> of the United Nations and the principles of international law,<lf> the sovereign right to exploit their own resources pursuant to<lf> their own environmental policies, and the responsibility to<lf> ensure that activities within their jurisdiction or control do<lf> not cause damage to the environment of other States or of areas<lf> beyond the limits of national jurisdiction;<lf> RECALLING Resolution 2749 (XXV) of the General Assembly of<lf> the United Nations on the principles governing the sea-bed and<lf> the ocean floor and the subsoil thereof, beyond the limits of<lf> national jurisdiction;<lf> NOTING that marine pollution originates in many sources,<lf> such as dumping and discharges through the atmosphere, rivers,<lf> estuaries, outfalls and pipelines, and that it is important that<lf> States use the best practicable means to prevent such pollution<lf> and develop products and processes which will reduce the amount<lf> of harmful wastes to be disposed of;<lf> BEING CONVINCED that international action to control the<lf> pollution of the sea by dumping can and must be taken without<lf> delay but that this action should not preclude discussion of<lf> measures to control other sources of marine pollution as soon as<lf> possible; and<lf> WISHING to improve protection of the marine environment by<lf> encouraging States with a common interest in particular<lf> geographical areas to enter into appropriate agreements<lf> supplementary to this Convention;<lf> HAVE AGREED as follows:<lf>                        ARTICLE I<lf> Contracting Parties shall individually and collectively promote the<lf> effective control of all sources of pollution of the marine<lf> environment, and pledge themselves especially to take all practicable<lf> steps to prevent the pollution of the sea by the dumping of waste and<lf> other matter that is liable to create hazards to human health, to harm<lf> living resources and marine life, to damage amenities or to interfere<lf> with other legitimate uses of the sea.<lf>                      ARTICLE II<lf> Contracting Parties shall, as provided for in the following Articles,<lf> take effective measures individually, according to their scientific,<lf> technical and economic capabilities, and collectively, to prevent<lf> marine pollution caused by dumping and shall harmonize their policies<lf> in this regard.<lf>                      ARTICLE III<lf> For the purposes of this Convention:<lf>   1.(a) "Dumping" means:<lf>   (i) any deliberate disposal at sea of wastes or other matter from<lf> vessels, aircraft, platforms or other man-made structures at sea;<lf>   (ii) any deliberate disposal at sea of vessels, aircraft, platforms<lf> or other man-made structures at sea.<lf>   (b) "Dumping" does not include:<lf>   (i) the disposal at sea of wastes or other matter<lf> incidental to, or derived from the normal operations of vessels,<lf> aircraft, platforms, or other man-made structures at sea and<lf> their equipment, other than wastes or other matter transported<lf> by or to vessels, aircraft, platforms or other man-made<lf> structures at sea, operating for the purpose of disposal of such<lf> matter or derived from the treatment of such wastes or other<lf> matter on such vessels, aircraft, platforms or structures;<lf>   (ii) placement of matter for a purpose other than the mere<lf> disposal thereof, provided that such placement is not contrary<lf> to the aims of this Convention.<lf>   (c) The disposal of wastes or other matter directly arising<lf> from, or related to the exploration, exploitation and associated<lf> off-shore processing of sea-bed mineral resources will not be<lf> covered by the provisions of this Convention.<lf>   2\. "Vessels and aircraft" means waterborne or airborne craft of any<lf> type whatsoever. This expression includes air cushioned craft and<lf> floating craft, whether self-propelled or not.<lf>   3\. "Sea" means all marine waters other than the internal waters of<lf> States.<lf>   4\. "Wastes or other matter" means material and substance of any<lf> kind, form or description.<lf>   5\. "Special permit" means permission granted specifically on<lf> application in advance and in accordance with Annex II and Annex III.<lf>   6\. "General permit" means permission granted in advance and in<lf> accordance with Annex III.<lf>   7\. "The Organization" means the Organization designated by the<lf> Contracting Parties in accordance with Article XIV (2).<lf>                      ARTICLE IV<lf>   1\. In accordance with the provisions of this Convention<lf> Contracting Parties shall prohibit the dumping of any wastes or<lf> other matter in whatever form or condition except as otherwise<lf> specified below:<lf>   (a) the dumping of wastes or other matter listed in Annex I<lf> is prohibited;<lf>   (b) the dumping of wastes or other matter listed in Annex<lf> II requires a prior special permit;<lf>   (c) the dumping of all other wastes or matter requires a prior<lf> general permit.<lf>   2\. Any permit shall be issued only after careful<lf> consideration of all the factors set forth in Annex III,<lf> including prior studies of the characteristics of the dumping<lf> site, as set forth in Sections B and C of that Annex.<lf>   3\. No provision of this Convention is to be interpreted as<lf> preventing a Contracting Party from prohibiting, insofar as that<lf> Party is concerned, the dumping of wastes or other matter not<lf> mentioned in Annex I. That Party shall notify such measures to<lf> the Organization.<lf>                      ARTICLE V<lf>   1\. The provisions of Article IV shall not apply when it is<lf> necessary to secure the safety of human life or of vessels,<lf> aircraft, platforms or other man-made structures at sea in cases<lf> of force majeure caused by stress of weather, or in any<lf> case which constitutes a danger to human life or a real threat<lf> to vessels, aircraft, platforms or other man-made structures at<lf> sea, if dumping appears to be the only way of averting the<lf> threat and if there is every probability that the damage<lf> consequent upon such dumping will be less than would otherwise<lf> occur. Such dumping shall be so conducted as to minimize the<lf> likelihood of damage to human or marine life and shall be<lf> reported forthwith to the Organization.<lf>   2\. A Contracting Party may issue a special permit as an<lf> exception to Article IV (1) (a), in emergencies, posing<lf> unacceptable risk relating to human health and admitting no<lf> other feasible solution. Before doing so the Party shall consult<lf> any other country or countries that are likely to be affected<lf> and the Organization which, after consulting other Parties, and<lf> international organizations as appropriate, shall, in accordance<lf> with Article XIV promptly recommend to the Party the most<lf> appropriate procedures to adopt. The Party shall follow these<lf> recommendations to the maximum extent feasible consistent with<lf> the time within which action must be taken and with the general<lf> obligation to avoid damage to the marine environment and shall<lf> inform the Organization of the action it takes. The Parties<lf> pledge themselves to assist one another in such situations.<lf>   3\. Any Contracting Party may waive its rights under<lf> paragraph (2) at the time of, or subsequent to ratification of,<lf> or accession to this Convention.<lf>                      ARTICLE VI<lf>   1\. Each Contracting Party shall designate an appropriate<lf> authority or authorities to:<lf>   (a) issue special permits which shall be required prior to,<lf> and for, the dumping of matter listed in Annex II and in the<lf> circumstances provided for in Article V (2);<lf>   (b) issue general permits which shall be required prior to,<lf> and for, the dumping of all other matter;<lf>   (c) keep records of the nature and quantities of all matter<lf> permitted to be dumped and the location, time and method of<lf> dumping;<lf>   (d) monitor individually, or in collaboration with other<lf> Parties and competent international organizations, the condition<lf> of the seas for the purposes of this Convention.<lf>   2\. The appropriate authority or authorities of a<lf> Contracting Party shall issue prior special or general permits<lf> in accordance with paragraph (1) in respect of matter intended<lf> for dumping:<lf>   (a) loaded in its territory;<lf>   (b) loaded by a vessel or aircraft registered in its territory or<lf> flying its flag, when the loading occurs in the territory of a State<lf> not party to this Convention.<lf>   3\. In issuing permits under sub-paragraphs (1) (a) and (b) above, the<lf> appropriate authority or authorities shall comply with Annex<lf> III, together with such additional criteria, measures and requirements<lf> as they may consider relevant.<lf>   4\. Each Contracting Party, directly or through a Secretariat<lf> established under a regional agreement, shall report to the<lf> Organization, and where appropriate to other Parties, the information<lf> specified in sub-paragraphs (c) and (d) of paragraph (1) above, and the<lf> criteria, measures and requirements it adopts in accordance with<lf> paragraph (3) above. The procedure to be followed and the nature of<lf> such reports shall be agreed by the Parties in consultation.<lf>                      ARTICLE VII<lf>   1\. Each Contracting Party shall apply the measures required<lf> to implement the present Convention to all:<lf>   (a) vessels and aircraft registered in its territory or flying its<lf> flag;<lf>   (b) vessels and aircraft loading in its territory or territorial seas<lf> matter which is to be dumped;<lf>   (c) vessels and aircraft and fixed or floating platforms under its<lf> jurisdiction believed to be engaged in dumping.<lf>   2\. Each Party shall take in its territory appropriate<lf> measures to prevent and punish conduct in contravention of the<lf> provisions of this Convention.<lf>    3\. The Parties agree to co-operate in the development of<lf> procedures for the effective application of this Convention<lf> particularly on the high seas, including procedures for the<lf> reporting of vessels and aircraft observed dumping in<lf> contravention of the Convention.<lf>   4\. This Convention shall not apply to those vessels and<lf> aircraft entitled to sovereign immunity under international law.<lf> However, each Party shall ensure by the adoption of appropriate<lf> measures that such vessels and aircraft owned or operated by it<lf> act in a manner consistent with the object and purpose of this<lf> Convention, and shall inform the Organization accordingly.<lf>   5\. Nothing in this Convention shall affect the right of<lf> each Party to adopt other measures, in accordance with the<lf> principles of international law, to prevent dumping at sea.<lf>                      ARTICLE VIII<lf> In order to further the objectives of this Convention, the<lf> Contracting Parties with common interests to protect in the<lf> marine environment in a given geographical area shall endeavour,<lf> taking into account characteristic regional features, to enter<lf> into regional agreements consistent with this Convention for the<lf> prevention of pollution, especially by dumping. The Contracting<lf> Parties to the present Convention shall endeavour to act<lf> consistently with the objectives and provisions of such regional<lf> agreements, which shall be notified to them by the Organization.<lf> Contracting Parties shall seek to co-operate with the Parties to<lf> regional agreements in order to develop harmonized procedures to<lf> be followed by Contracting Parties to the different conventions<lf> concerned. Special attention shall be given to co-operation in<lf> the field of monitoring and scientific research.<lf>                      ARTICLE IX<lf> The Contracting Parties shall promote, through collaboration within the<lf> Organization and other international bodies, support for those<lf> Parties which request it for:<lf>   (a) the training of scientific and technical personnel;<lf>   (b) the supply of necessary equipment and facilities for research and<lf> monitoring;<lf>   (c) the disposal and treatment of waste and other measures<lf> to prevent or mitigate pollution caused by dumping;<lf> preferably within the countries concerned, so furthering<lf> the aims and purposes of this Convention.<lf>                      ARTICLE X<lf> In accordance with the principles of international law regarding State<lf> responsibility for damage to the environment of other States or<lf> to any other area of the environment, caused by dumping of<lf> wastes and other matter of all kinds, the Contracting Parties<lf> undertake to develop procedures for the assessment of liability<lf> and the settlement of disputes regarding dumping.<lf>                      ARTICLE XI<lf> The Contracting Parties shall at their first consultative meeting<lf> consider procedures for the settlement of disputes concerning the<lf> interpretation and application of this Convention.<lf>                      ARTICLE XII<lf> The Contracting Parties pledge themselves to promote, within<lf> the competent specialized agencies and other international<lf> bodies, measures to protect the marine environment against<lf> pollution caused by:<lf>   (a) hydrocarbons, including oil, and their wastes;<lf>   (b) other noxious or hazardous matter transported by vessels for<lf> purposes other than dumping;<lf>   (c) wastes generated in the course of operation of vessels,<lf> aircraft,<lf> platforms and other man-made structures at sea;<lf>   (d) radio-active pollutants from all sources, including<lf> vessels;<lf>   (e) agents of chemical and biological warfare;<lf>   (f) wastes or other matter directly arising from, or related to the<lf> exploration, exploitation and associated off-shore processing of<lf> sea-bed mineral resources.  The Parties will also promote, within the<lf> appropriate international organization, the codification of signals to<lf> be used by vessels engaged in dumping.<lf>                      ARTICLE XIII<lf> Nothing in this Convention shall prejudice the codification<lf> and development of the law of the sea by the United Nations<lf> Conference on the Law of the Sea convened pursuant to Resolution<lf> 2750 C (XXV) of the General Assembly of the United Nations nor<lf> the present or future claims and legal views of any State<lf> concerning the law of the sea and the nature and extent of<lf> coastal and flag State jurisdiction. The Contracting Parties<lf> agree to consult at a meeting to be convened by the Organization<lf> after the Law of the Sea Conference, and in any case not later<lf> than 1976, with a view to defining the nature and extent of the<lf> right and the responsibility of a coastal State to apply the<lf> Convention in a zone adjacent to its coast.<lf>                      ARTICLE XIV<lf>   1\. The Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain<lf> and Northern Ireland as a depositary shall call a meeting of the<lf> Contracting Parties not later than three months after the entry<lf> into force of this Convention to decide on organizational<lf> matters.<lf>   2\. The Contracting Parties shall designate a competent<lf> Organization existing at the time of that meeting to be<lf> responsible for Secretariat duties in relation to this<lf> Convention. Any Party to this Convention not being a member of<lf> this Organization shall make an appropriate contribution to the<lf> expenses incurred by the Organization in performing these duties.<lf>   3\. The Secretariat duties of the Organization shall include:<lf>   (a) the convening of consultative meetings of the<lf> Contracting Parties not less frequently than once every two<lf> years and of special meetings of the Parties at any time on the<lf> request of two-thirds of the Parties;<lf>   (b) preparing and assisting, in consultation with the<lf> Contracting Parties and appropriate International Organizations,<lf> in the development and implementation of procedures referred to<lf> in sub-paragraph (4) (e) of this Article;<lf>   (c) considering enquiries by, and information from the<lf> Contracting Parties, consulting with them and with the<lf> appropriate International Organizations, and providing<lf> recommendations to the Parties on questions related to, but not<lf> specifically covered by the Convention;<lf>   (d) conveying to the Parties concerned all notifications<lf> received by the Organization in accordance with Articles IV (3), V (1)<lf> and (2), VI (4), XV, XX and XXI.  Prior to the designation of the<lf> Organization these functions shall, as necessary, be performed by the<lf> depositary, who for this purpose shall be the Government of the United<lf> Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.<lf> 

  4\. Consultative or special meetings of the Contracting<lf> Parties shall keep under continuing review the implementation of<lf> this Convention and may, inter alia:<lf>   (a) review and adopt amendments to this Convention and its Annexes in<lf> accordance with Article XV;<lf>   (b) invite the appropriate scientific body or bodies to<lf> collaborate with and to advise the Parties or the Organization<lf> on any scientific or technical aspect relevant to this<lf> Convention, including particularly the content of the Annexes;<lf>   (c) receive and consider reports made pursuant to Article VI (4);<lf>   (d) promote co-operation with and between regional<lf> organizations concerned with the prevention of marine pollution;<lf>   (e) develop or adopt, in consulation with appropriate International<lf> Organizations, procedures referred to in Article V (2),<lf> including basic criteria for determining exceptional and<lf> emergency situations, and procedures for consultative advice and<lf> the safe disposal of matter in such circumstances, including the<lf> designation of appropriate dumping areas, and recommend<lf> accordingly;<lf>   (f) consider any additional action that may be required.<lf>   5\. The Contracting Parties at their first consultative<lf> meeting shall establish rules of procedure as necessary.<lf>                      ARTICLE XV<lf>   1\. (a) At meetings of the Contracting Parties called in<lf> accordance with Article XIV amendments to this Convention may be<lf> adopted by a two-thirds majority of those present. An amendment<lf> shall enter into force for the Parties which have accepted it on<lf> the sixtieth day after two-thirds of the Parties shall have<lf> deposited an instrument of acceptance of the amendment with the<lf> Organization. Thereafter the amendment shall enter into force<lf> for any other Party 30 days after that Party deposits its<lf> instrument of acceptance of the amendment.<lf>   (b) The Organization shall inform all Contracting Parties<lf> of any request made for a special meeting under Article XIV and<lf> of any amendments adopted at meetings of the Parties and of the<lf> date on which each such amendment enters into force for each Party.<lf>   2\. Amendments to the Annexes will be based on scientific or<lf> technical considerations. Amendments to the Annexes approved by a<lf> two-thirds majority of those present at a meeting called in<lf> accordance with Article XIV shall enter into force for each<lf> Contracting Party immediately on notification of its acceptance<lf> to the Organization and 100 days after approval by the meeting<lf> for all other Parties except for those which before the end of<lf> the 100 days make a declaration that they are not able to accept<lf> the amendment at that time. Parties should endeavour to signify<lf> their acceptance of an amendment to the Organization as soon as<lf> possible after approval at a meeting. A Party may at any time<lf> substitute an acceptance for a previous declaration of objection<lf> and the amendment previously objected to shall thereupon enter<lf> into force for that Party.<lf>   3\. An acceptance or declaration of objection under this<lf> Article shall be made by the deposit of an instrument with the<lf> Organization. The Organization shall notify all Contracting<lf> Parties of the receipt of such instruments.<lf>   4\. Prior to the designation of the Organization, the<lf> Secretarial functions herein attributed to it, shall be<lf> performed temporarily by the Government of the United Kingdom of<lf> Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as one of the depositaries<lf> of this Convention.<lf>                      ARTICLE XVI<lf> This Convention shall be open for signature by any State at<lf> London, Mexico City, Moscow and Washington from 29 December 1972<lf> until 31 December 1973.<lf>                      ARTICLE XVII<lf> This Convention shall be subject to ratification. The instruments of<lf> ratification shall be deposited with the Governments of Mexico,<lf> the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom of<lf> Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the United States of<lf> America.<lf>                      ARTICLE XVIII<lf> After 31 December 1973, this Convention shall be open for<lf> accession by any State. The instruments of accession shall be<lf> deposited with the Governments of Mexico, the Union of Soviet<lf> Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and<lf> Northern Ireland, and the United States of America.<lf>                      ARTICLE XIX<lf>   1\. This Convention shall enter into force on the thirtieth<lf> day following the date of deposit of the fifteenth instrument of<lf> ratification or accession.<lf>   2\. For each Contracting Party ratifying or acceding to the<lf> Convention after the deposit of the fifteenth instrument of<lf> ratification or accession, the Convention shall enter into force<lf> on the thirtieth day after deposit by such Party of its<lf> instrument of ratification or accession.<lf>                      ARTICLE XX<lf> The depositaries shall inform Contracting Parties:<lf>   (a) of signatures to this Convention and of the deposit of<lf> instruments of ratification, accession or withdrawal, in<lf> accordance with Articles XVI, XVII, XVIII and XXI, and<lf>   (b) of the date on which this Convention will enter into<lf> force, in accordance with Article XIX.<lf>                      ARTICLE XXI<lf> Any Contracting Party may withdraw from this Convention by<lf> giving six months' notice in writing to a depositary, which<lf> shall promptly inform all Parties of such notice.<lf>                      ARTICLE XXII<lf> The original of this Convention of which the English, French, Russian<lf> and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the<lf> Governments of Mexico, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,<lf> the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the<lf> United States of America who shall send certified copies thereof<lf> to all States.<lf> IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned Plenipotentiaries, being<lf> duly authorized thereto by their respective Governments have<lf> signed the present Convention.*<lf> DONE in quadruplicate at London, Mexico City, Moscow and Washington,<lf> this twenty-ninth day of December, 1972.<lf> *Signatures omitted<lf>                         ANNEX I<lf>   1\. Organohalogen compounds.<lf>   2\. Mercury and mercury compounds.<lf>   3\. Cadmium and cadmium compounds.<lf>   4\. Persistent plastics and other persistent synthetic materials, for<lf> example, netting and ropes, which may float or may remain in suspension<lf> in the sea in such a manner as to interfere materially with fishing,<lf> navigation or other legitimate uses of the sea.<lf>   5\. Crude oil, fuel oil, heavy diesel oil, and lubricating oils,<lf> hydraulic fluids, and any mixtures containing any of these, taken on<lf> board for the purpose of dumping.<lf>   6\. High-level radio-active wastes or other high-level<lf> radio-active matter, defined on public health, biological or<lf> other grounds, by the competent international body in this<lf> field, at present the International Atomic Energy Agency, as<lf> unsuitable for dumping at sea.<lf>   7\. Materials in whatever form (e.g. solids, liquids, semi-liquids,<lf> gases or in a living state) produced for biological and chemical<lf> warfare.<lf>   8\. The preceding paragraphs of this Annex do not apply to<lf> substances which are rapidly rendered harmless by physical,<lf> chemical or biological processes in the sea provided they do not:<lf>   (i) make edible marine organisms unpalatable, or<lf>   (ii) endanger human health or that of domestic animals.<lf> The consultative procedure provided for under Article XIV<lf> should be followed by a Party if there is doubt about the<lf> harmlessness of the substance.<lf>   9\. This Annex does not apply to wastes or other materials<lf> (e.g. sewage sludges and dredged spoils) containing the matters<lf> referred to in paragraphs 1-5 above as trace contaminants. Such<lf> wastes shall be subject to the provisions of Annexes II and III<lf> as appropriate.<lf>                               ANNEX II<lf> The following substances and materials requiring special care are<lf> listed for the purposes of Article VI (1) (a).<lf>   A. Wastes containing significant amounts of the matters listed below:<lf> arsenic<lf> lead<lf> copper       and their compounds<lf> zinc<lf> organosilicon compounds<lf> cyanides<lf> fluorides<lf> pesticides and their by-products not covered in Annex I.<lf>   B. In the issue of permits for the dumping of large<lf> quantities of acids and alkalis, consideration shall be given to<lf> the possible presence in such wastes of the substances listed in<lf> paragraph A and to the following additional substances:<lf> beryllium<lf> chromium<lf> nickel        and their compounds<lf> vanadium<lf>   C. Containers, scrap metal and other bulky wastes liable to<lf> sink to the sea bottom which may present a serious obstacle to<lf> fishing or navigation.<lf>   D. Radio-active wastes or other radio-active matter not<lf> included in Annex I. In the issue of permits for the dumping of<lf> this matter, the Contracting Parties should take full account of<lf> the recommendations of the competent international body in this<lf> field, at present the International Atomic Energy Agency.<lf>                             ANNEX III<lf> Provisions to be considered in establishing criteria governing the<lf> issue of permits for the dumping of matter at sea, taking into account<lf> Article IV (2), include:<lf> <p>  A - Characteristics and composition of the matter<lf>   1\. Total amount and average composition of matter dumped (e.g. per<lf> year).<lf>   2\. Form, e.g. solid, sludge, liquid, or gaseous.<lf>   3\. Properties: physical (e.g. solubility and density),<lf> chemical and biochemical (e.g. oxygen demand, nutrients) and<lf> biological (e.g. presence of viruses, bacteria, yeasts,<lf> parasites).<lf>   4\. Toxicity.<lf>   5\. Persistence: physical, chemical and biological.<lf>   6\. Accumulation and biotransformation in biological materials or<lf> sediments.<lf>   7\. Susceptibility to physical, chemical and biochemical<lf> changes and interaction in the aquatic environment with other<lf> dissolved organic and inorganic materials.<lf>   8\. Probability of production of taints or other changes<lf> reducing marketability of resources (fish, shellfish, etc.)<lf>   B - Characteristics of dumping site and method of deposit<lf>   1\. Location (e.g. co-ordinates of the dumping area, depth<lf> and distance from the coast), location in relation to other<lf> areas (e.g. amenity areas, spawning, nursery and fishing areas<lf> and exploitable resources).<lf>   2\. Rate of disposal per specific period (e.g. quantity per<lf> day, per week, per month).<lf>   3\. Methods of packaging and containment, if any.<lf>   4\. Initial dilution achieved by proposed method of release.<lf>   5\. Dispersal characteristics (e.g. effects of currents,<lf> tides and wind on horizontal transport and vertical mixing).<lf>   6\. Water characteristics (e.g. temperature, pH, salinity,<lf> stratification, oxygen indices of pollution - dissolved oxygen<lf> (DO), chemical oxygen demand (COD), biochemical oxygen demand<lf> (BOD) - nitrogen present in organic and mineral form including<lf> ammonia, suspended matter, other nutrients and productivity).<lf>   7\. Bottom characteristics (e.g. topography, geochemical and<lf> geological characteristics and biological productivity).<lf>   8\. Existence and effects of other dumpings which have been<lf> made in the dumping area (e.g. heavy metal background reading<lf> and organic carbon content).<lf>   9\. In issuing a permit for dumping, Contracting Parties<lf> should consider whether an adequate scientific basis exists for<lf> assessing the consequences of such dumping, as outlined in this<lf> Annex, taking into account seasonal variations.<lf>   C - General considerations and conditions<lf>   1\. Possible effects on amenities (e.g. presence of floating or<lf> stranded material, turbidity, objectionable odour, discolouration and<lf> foaming).<lf>   2\. Possible effects on marine life, fish and shellfish culture, fish<lf> stocks and fisheries, seaweed harvesting and culture.<lf>   3\. Possible effects on other uses of the sea (e.g.<lf> impairment of water quality for industrial use, underwater<lf> corrosion of structures, interference with ship operations from<lf> floating materials, interference with fishing or navigation<lf> through deposit of waste or solid objects on the sea floor and<lf> protection of areas of special importance for scientific or<lf> conservation purposes).<lf>   4\. The practical availability of alternative land-based<lf> methods of treatment, disposal or elimination, or of treatment<lf> to render the matter less harmful for dumping at sea.<lf> </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf>
</lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sch>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SCHEDULE 2 </name>
</b>** 

## SCH
<sch>                          SCHEDULE 2                     Section 4<lf> Resolution adopted on 12 October 1978<lf> THE THIRD CONSULTATIVE MEETING,<lf> RECALLING Article I of the Convention on the Prevention of<lf> Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter, which<lf> provides that Contracting Parties shall individually and<lf> collectively promote the effective control of all sources of<lf> pollution of the marine environment,<lf> HAVING NOTED the use of incineration at sea as a means of<lf> disposal of wastes containing highly toxic substances and the<lf> consequent risks of marine and atmospheric pollution which may<lf> result from this process,<lf> DESIRING to prevent such pollution and to minimize the risk of hazards<lf> to other vessels or interference with other legitimate uses of the<lf> sea which could arise from incineration operations at sea,<lf> RECOGNIZING present methods of incineration at sea as being<lf> an interim method of disposal of wastes pending the development<lf> of environmentally better solutions, considering at all times<lf> the best available technology,<lf> AFFIRMING that the intention of the adoption of mandatory<lf> provisions for the control of incineration at sea is not to<lf> increase the amounts and kinds of wastes or other matter<lf> incinerated at sea for which there are available practical<lf> alternative land-based methods of treatment, disposal or elimination,<lf> REAFFIRMING that, in accordance with Article IV (3) of the Convention,<lf> Contracting Parties can apply additional regulations for incineration<lf> at sea on a national basis,<lf> NOTING that Article VIII of the Convention encourages Contracting<lf> Parties, within the framework of regional conventions, to develop<lf> further agreements reflecting the conditions of the geographical area<lf> concerned,<lf> RECALLING the decision of the Second Consultative Meeting<lf> that provisions for the control of incineration at sea should be<lf> implemented by Contracting Parties on a mandatory basis in the<lf> form of a legal instrument adopted within the framework of the<lf> Convention (LDCII/11, Annex II),<lf> HAVING CONSIDERED the proposed amendments to the Annexes of<lf> the Convention for the control of incineration at sea contained<lf> in the Report of the Ad Hoc Group of Legal Experts on Dumping,<lf> LDC III/12<lf>                                  ANNEX 3<lf> Page 2<lf> ADOPTS the following amendments to the Annexes to the<lf> Convention in accordance with Articles XIV (4) (a) and XV (2)<lf> thereof:<lf>   (a) addition of a paragraph 10 to Annex I;<lf>   (b) addition of a paragraph E to Annex II; and<lf>   (c) addition of an Addendum to Annex I, containing Regulations for<lf> the Control of Incineration of Wastes and Other Matter at Sea,<lf> the texts of which are set out in Attachment to this Resolution,<lf> ENTRUSTS the Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultative<lf> Organization with the task of ensuring, in collaboration with<lf> the Governments of France, Spain, the Union of Soviet Socialist<lf> Republics and the United Kingdom, that the texts of the above<lf> Amendments are drawn up by 1 December 1978 in all official<lf> languages of the Convention with the linguistic consistency in each<lf> text, which would then become the authentic text of the Annexes to the<lf> Convention in the English, French, Russian and Spanish languages,<lf> RESOLVES that for the purposes of Articles XIV (4) (a) and XV (2) of<lf> the Convention, 1 December 1978 shall be treated as the date of the<lf> adoption of the amendments,<lf> REQUESTS the Secretary-General of the Organization to inform<lf> Contracting Parties of the above-mentioned amendments,<lf> REQUESTS the Ad Hoc Group on Incineration at Sea to prepare<lf> draft Technical Guidelines for the Control of Incineration of<lf> Wastes and Other Matter at Sea with a view to adoption by the<lf> Fourth Consultative Meeting,<lf> INVITES Contracting Parties to implement, as an interim<lf> measure, the existing Technical Guidelines (LDC II/11, Annex II,<lf> with amendments (IAS/9, Annex IV)) and the notification<lf> procedure set out in Annex 2 to LDC III/12\. LDC III/12<lf>                                 ANNEX 3<lf> Page 3<lf> Attachment<lf> Amendments to Annexes to the<lf> CONVENTION ON THE PREVENTION OF MARINE POLLUTION BY DUMPING OF WASTES<lf> AND OTHER MATTER<lf> concerning incineration at sea<lf> The following paragraph shall be added to Annex I:<lf>   10\. Paragraphs 1 and 5 of this Annex do not apply to the<lf> disposal of wastes or other matter referred to in these<lf> paragraphs by means of incineration at sea. Incineration of such<lf> wastes or other matter at sea requires a prior special permit.<lf> In the issue of special permits for incineration the Contracting<lf> Parties shall apply the Regulations for the Control of<lf> Incineration of Wastes and Other Matter at Sea set forth in the<lf> Addendum to this Annex (which shall constitute an integral part<lf> of this Annex) and take full account of the Technical Guidelines<lf> on the Control of Incineration of Wastes and Other Matter at Sea<lf> adopted by the Contracting Parties in consultation.<lf> The following paragraph shall be added to Annex II:<lf>   E. In the issue of special permits for the incineration of substances<lf> and materials listed in this Annex, the Contracting Parties shall<lf> apply the Regulations for the Control of Incineration of Wastes<lf> and Other Matter at Sea set forth in the Addendum to Annex I and<lf> take full account of the Technical Guidelines on the Control of<lf> Incineration of Wastes and Other Matter at Sea adopted by the<lf> Contracting Parties in consultation, to the extent specified in<lf> these Regulations and Guidelines.<lf>                                ADDENDUM<lf> (to Annex I)<lf> REGULATIONS FOR THE CONTROL OF INCINERATION OF WASTES AND OTHER MATTER<lf> AT SEA<lf>                                   PART I<lf>                                 REGULATION 1<lf> Definitions<lf> For the purposes of this Addendum:<lf>   (1) "Marine incineration facility" means a vessel, platform, or other<lf> man-made structure operating for the purpose of incineration at sea.<lf>   (2) "Incineration at sea" means the deliberate combustion of wastes<lf> or other matter on marine incineration facilities for the purpose of<lf> their thermal destruction.<lf> Activities incidental to the normal operation of vessels,<lf> platforms or other man-made structures are excluded from the<lf> scope of this definition.<lf>                                REGULATION 2<lf> Application<lf>   (1) Part II of these Regulations shall apply to the following wastes<lf> or other matter:<lf>   (a) those referred to in paragraph 1 of Annex I;<lf>   (b) pesticides and their by-products not covered in Annex I.<lf>   (2) Contracting Parties shall first consider the practical<lf> availability of alternative land-based methods of treatment,<lf> disposal or elimination, or of treatment to render the wastes or<lf> other matter less harmful, before issuing a permit for<lf> incineration at sea in accordance with these Regulations.<lf> Incineration at sea shall in no way be interpreted as<lf> discouraging progress towards environmentally better solutions<lf> including the development of new techniques.<lf>   (3) Incineration at sea of wastes or other matter referred<lf> to in paragraph 10 of Annex I and paragraph E of Annex II, other<lf> than those referred to in paragraph (1) of this Regulation,<lf> shall be controlled to the satisfaction of the Contracting Party<lf> issuing the special permit.<lf>   (4) Incineration at sea of wastes or other matter not<lf> referred to in paragraphs (1) and (3) of this Regulation shall<lf> be subject to a general permit.<lf>   (5) In the issue of permits referred to in paragraphs (3)<lf> and (4) of this Regulation, the Contracting Parties shall take<lf> full account of all applicable provisions of these Regulations<lf> and the Technical Guidelines on the Control of Incineration of<lf> Waste and Other Matter at Sea for the waste in question.<lf>                                 PART II<lf>                               REGULATION 3<lf> Approval and Surveys of the Incineration System<lf>   (1) The incineration system for every proposed marine incineration<lf> facility shall be subject to the surveys specified<lf> below. In accordance with Article VII (1) of the Convention, the<lf> Contracting Party which proposes to issue an incineration permit<lf> shall ensure that the surveys of the marine incineration<lf> facility to be used have been completed and the incineration<lf> system complies with the provisions of these Regulations. If the<lf> initial survey is carried out under the direction of a<lf> Contracting Party a special permit, which specifies the testing<lf> requirements, shall be issued by the Party. The results of each<lf> survey shall be recorded in a survey report.<lf>   (a) An initial survey shall be carried out in order to<lf> ensure that during the incineration of waste and other matter<lf> combustion and destruction efficiencies are in excess of 99.9<lf> per cent.<lf>   (b) As a part of the initial survey the State under whose<lf> direction the survey is being carried out shall:<lf>   (i) approve the siting, type and manner of use of temperature<lf> measuring devices;<lf>   (ii) approve the gas sampling system including probe<lf> locations, analytical devices, and the manner of recording;<lf>   (iii) ensure that approved devices have been installed to<lf> automatically shut off the feed of waste to the incinerator if<lf> the temperature drops below approved minimum temperatures;<lf>   (iv) ensure that there are no means of disposing of wastes<lf> or other matter from the marine incineration facility except by<lf> means of the incinerator during normal operations;<lf>   (v) approve the devices by which feed rates of waste and<lf> fuel are controlled and recorded;<lf>   (vi) confirm the performance of the incineration system by<lf> testing under intensive stack monitoring, including the<lf> measurements of O2, CO, CO2, halogenated organic content, and<lf> total hydrocarbon content using wastes typical of those expected<lf> to be incinerated.<lf>   (c) The incineration system shall be surveyed at least every two<lf> years to ensure that the incinerator continues to comply with these<lf> Regulations. The scope of the biennial survey shall be based<lf> upon an evaluation of operating data and maintenance records for<lf> the previous two years.<lf>   (2) Following the satisfactory completion of a survey, a<lf> form of approval shall be issued by a Contracting Party if the<lf> incineration system is found to be in compliance with these<lf> Regulations. A copy of the survey report shall be attached to<lf> the form of approval. A form of approval issued by a Contracting<lf> Party shall be recognized by other Contracting Parties unless<lf> there are clear grounds for believing that the incineration<lf> system is not in compliance with these Regulations. A copy of<lf> each form of approval and survey report shall be submitted to<lf> the Organization.<lf>   (3) After any survey has been completed, no significant<lf> changes which could affect the performance of the incineration<lf> system shall be made without approval of the Contracting Party<lf> which has issued the form of approval.<lf>                           REGULATION 4<lf> Wastes Requiring Special Studies<lf>   (1) Where a Contracting Party has doubts as to the thermal<lf> destructibility of the wastes or other matter proposed for<lf> incineration, pilot scale tests shall be undertaken.<lf>   (2) Where a Contracting Party proposes to permit<lf> incineration of wastes or other matter over which doubts as to<lf> the efficiency of combustion exist, the incineration system<lf> shall be subject to the same intensive stack monitoring as<lf> required for the initial incineration system survey.<lf> Consideration shall be given to the sampling of particulates,<lf> taking into account the solid content of the wastes.<lf>   (3) The minimum approved flame temperature shall be that<lf> specified in Regulation 5 unless the results of tests of the<lf> marine incineration facility demonstrate that the required<lf> combustion and destruction efficiency can be achieved at a lower<lf> temperature.<lf>   (4) The results of special studies referred to in<lf> paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) of this Regulation shall be recorded<lf> and attached to the survey report. A copy shall be sent to the<lf> Organization.<lf>                             REGULATION 5<lf> Operational Requirements<lf>   (1) The operation of the incineration system shall be<lf> controlled so as to ensure that the incineration of wastes or<lf> other matter does not take place at a flame temperature less<lf> than 1250 degrees centigrade, except as provided for in<lf> Regulation 4.<lf>   (2) The combustion efficiency shall be at least 99.95 + 0.05%<lf> based on:<lf>           Combustion efficiency =     Cco2 - Cco  X   100<lf>                                           Cco2<lf> where Cco2 = concentration of carbon dioxide in the combustion gases<lf>       Cco = concentration of carbon monoxide in the combustion gases.<lf>   (3)  There shall be no black smoke nor flame extension above the<lf> plane of the stack.<lf>   (4) The marine incineration facility shall reply promptly to radio<lf> calls at all times during the incineration.<lf>                              REGULATION 6<lf> Recording Devices and Records<lf>   (1) Marine incineration facilities shall utilize recording<lf> devices or methods as approved under Regulation 3\. As a minimum,<lf> the following data shall be recorded during each incineration<lf> operation and retained for inspection by the Contracting Party<lf> who has issued the permit:<lf>   (a) continuous temperature measurements by approved temperature<lf> measuring devices;<lf>   (b) date and time during incineration and record of waste being<lf> incinerated;<lf>   (c) vessel position by appropriate navigational means;<lf>   (d) feed rates of waste and fuel - for liquid wastes and<lf> fuel the flow rate shall be continuously recorded; the latter<lf> requirement does not apply to vessels operating on or before 1<lf> January 1979;<lf>   (e) CO and CO2 concentration in combustion gases;<lf>   (f) vessel's course and speed.<lf>   (2) Approval forms issued, copies of survey reports<lf> prepared in accordance with Regulation 3 and copies of<lf> incineration permits issued for the wastes or other matter to be<lf> incinerated on the facility by a Contracting Party shall be kept<lf> at the marine incineration facility.<lf>                            REGULATION 7<lf> Control over the Nature of Wastes Incinerated<lf> A permit application for the incineration of wastes or other matter at<lf> sea shall include information on the characteristics of wastes or other<lf> matter sufficient to comply  with the requirements of Regulation 9.<lf>                           REGULATION 8<lf> Incineration Sites<lf>   (1) Provisions to be considered in establishing criteria<lf> governing the selection of incineration sites shall include, in<lf> addition to those listed in Annex III to the Convention, the<lf> following:<lf>   (a) the atmospheric dispersal characteristics of the area - including<lf> wind speed and direction, atmospheric stability, frequency of<lf> inversions and fog, precipitation types and amounts, humidity - in<lf> order to determine the potential impact on the surrounding environment<lf> of pollutants released from the marine incineration facility, giving<lf> particular attention to the possibility of atmospheric transport of<lf> pollutants to coastal areas;<lf>   (b) oceanic dispersal characteristics of the area in order to<lf> evaluate the potential impact of plume interaction with the water<lf> surface;<lf>   (c) availability of navigational aids.<lf>   (2) The coordinates of permanently designated incineration zones<lf> shall be widely disseminated and communicated to the Organization.<lf>                            REGULATION 9<lf> Notification<lf> Contracting Parties shall comply with notification<lf> procedures adopted by the Parties in consultation.<lf> </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sch>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SCHEDULE 3 </name>
</b>** 

## SCH
<sch>                           SCHEDULE 3                Section 4<lf>          Resolution adopted on 24 September 1980<lf> THE FIFTH CONSULTATIVE MEETING,<lf> Recalling Article I of the Convention on the Prevention of<lf> Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter, which<lf> provides that Contracting Parties shall individually and<lf> collectively promote the effective control of all sources of<lf> pollution of the marine environment,<lf> NOTING that in accordance with Article XV of the Convention<lf> amendments to the Annexes of the Convention shall be based on<lf> scientific or technical considerations,<lf> HAVING CONSIDERED the proposed amendments to the Annexes I<lf> and II of the Convention and the scientific background material<lf> thereto brought forward by the Ad Hoc Scientific Working Group<lf> on Dumping,<lf> RECALLING the decision of the Fourth Consultative Meeting<lf> that the amendments to the Annexes I and II to the Convention<lf> should be implemented by Contracting Parties on a voluntary<lf> basis until their formal adoption,<lf> ADOPTS the following amendments to the Annexes to the<lf> Convention in accordance with Article XV (2) thereof:<lf>   (a) the amendment of paragraph 5 to Annex I;<lf>   (b) the addition of a paragraph F to Annex II, the texts of which are<lf> set out in Attachment to this Resolution;<lf> ENTRUSTS the Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultative<lf> Organization with the task of ensuring, in collaboration with<lf> the Governments of France, Spain, the Union of Soviet Socialist<lf> Republics and the United Kingdom, that the texts of the above<lf> amendments are drawn up by 1 December 1980 in all official<lf> languages of the Convention with the linguistic consistency in<lf> each text, which would then become the authentic text of the<lf> Annexes to the Convention in the English, French, Russian and<lf> Spanish languages,<lf> RESOLVES that for the purposes of Articles XIV (4) (a) and XV (2) of<lf> the Convention, 1 December 1980 shall be treated as the date of the<lf> adoption of the amendments, REQUESTS the Secretary-General of the<lf> Organization to inform Contracting Parties of the above-mentioned<lf> amendments.<lf>                                   Attachment<lf>       AMENDMENTS TO ANNEXES TO THE CONVENTION ON THE PREVENTION OF<lf>            MARINE POLLUTION BY DUMPING OF WASTES AND OTHER MATTER<lf> Paragraph 5 of Annex I shall be amended as follows :<lf>   "5 Crude oil and its wastes, refined petroleum products,<lf> petroleum distillate residues, and any mixtures containing any<lf> of these, taken on board for the purposes of dumping."<lf> The following paragraph shall be added to Annex II :<lf>   "F Substances which, though of a non-toxic nature, may<lf> become harmful due to the quantities in which they are dumped,<lf> or which are liable to seriously reduce amenities."<lf> </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sch>
**<b>

### <name>ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (SEA DUMPING) ACT 1981 - SCHEDULE 4 </name>
</b>** 

## SCH
<sch>                                SCHEDULE 4                 Section 4<lf>   PROTOCOL FOR THE PREVENTION OF POLLUTION OF THE SOUTH PACIFIC REGION<lf>                    BY DUMPING THE PARTIES TO THE PROTOCOL,<lf> BEING PARTIES to the Convention for the Protection of the Natural Resources and Environment of the South Pacific Region, adopted in Noumea, New Caledonia on the twenty-fourth day of November in the year one thousand nine hundred and eighty-six;<lf> RECOGNIZING the danger posed to the marine environment by pollution caused by the dumping of waste or other matter;<lf> CONSIDERING that they have a common interest to protect the South Pacific Region from this danger, taking into account the unique environmental quality of the region;<lf> DESIRING to enter into a regional agreement consistent with the Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter, 1972 as provided in article VIII thereof according to which the Contracting Parties to that Convention have undertaken to endeavour to act consistently with the objectives and provisions of such regional agreement;<lf> HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS:<lf>                                     Article 1<lf>                                   DEFINITIONS<lf> For the purpose of this Protocol "Convention" means the Convention for the Protection of the Natural Resources and Environment of the South Pacific Region adopted in Noumea, New Caledonia on the twenty-fourth day of November in the year one thousand nine hundred and eighty-six.<lf>                                     Article 2<lf>                              GEOGRAPHICAL COVERAGE<lf> The area to which this Protocol applies, hereinafter referred to as the "Protocol Area, shall be the Convention Area as defined in article 2 of the Convention together with the continental shelf of a Party where it extends, in accordance with international law, outward beyond the Convention Area.<lf>                                      Article 3<lf>                                 GENERAL OBLIGATIONS<lf>   1\. The parties shall take all appropriate measures to prevent, reduce and control pollution in the Protocol Area by dumping.<lf>   2\. Dumping within the territorial sea and the exclusive economic zone or onto the continental shelf of a Party as defined in international law shall not be carried out without the express prior approval of that Party, which has the right to permit, regulate and control such dumping taking fully into account the provisions of this Protocol, and after due consideration of the matter with other Parties which by reason of their geographical situation may be adversely affected thereby.<lf>   3\. National laws, regulations and measures adopted by the Parties shall be no less effective in preventing, reducing and controlling pollution by dumping than the relevant internationally recognised rules and procedures relating to the control of dumping established within the framework of the Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter, 1972.<lf>                                    Article 4<lf>                                 PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES<lf>   1\. The dumping in the Protocol Area of wastes or other matter listed in Annex I to this Protocol is prohibited except as provided in this Protocol.<lf>   2\. No provision of this Protocol is to be interpreted as preventing a Party from prohibiting, insofar as that Party is concerned, the dumping of wastes or other matter not mentioned in Annex I. That Party shall notify such measures to the Organisation.<lf>                                    Article 5<lf>                                SPECIAL PERMITS<lf> The dumping in the Protocol Area of wastes or other matter listed in Annex II to this Protocol requires, in each case, a prior special permit.<lf>                                   Article 6<lf>                                 GENERAL PERMITS<lf> The dumping in the Protocol Area of all wastes or other matter not listed in Annexes I and II to this Protocol requires a prior general permit.<lf>                                   Article 7<lf>                 FACTORS GOVERNING THE ISSUE OF PERMITS<lf> The permits referred to in articles 5 and 6 shall be issued only after careful consideration of all the factors set forth in Annex III to this Protocol. The Organisation shall receive records of such permits.<lf>                                   Article 8<lf>                        ALLOCATION OF SUBSTANCES TO ANNEXES<lf> Substances are allocated to Annexes I and II of this Protocol in accordance with Annex IV.<lf>                                  Article 9<lf>                                FORCE MAJEURE<lf> The provisions of articles 4, 5 and 6 shall not apply when it is necessary to secure the safety of human life or of vessels, aircraft, platforms or other man-made structures at sea in cases of force majeure caused by stress of weather, or in any case which constitutes a danger to human life or a real threat to vessels, aircraft, platforms, or other man-made structures at sea, if dumping appears to be the only way of averting the threat and if there is every probability that the damage consequent upon such dumping will be less than would otherwise occur. Such dumping shall be so conducted as to minimise the likelihood of damage to human or marine life. Such dumping shall immediately be reported to the Organisation and, either through the Organisation or directly, to any Party or Parties likely to be affected, together with full details of the circumstances and of the nature and quantities of the wastes or other matter dumped.<lf>                                 Article 10<lf>                                EMERGENCIES<lf>   1\. A Party may issue a special permit as an exception to article 4, in emergencies arising in the Protocol Area, posing unacceptable risk relating to human health and admitting no other feasible solution. Before doing so the Party shall consult any other country or countries that are likely to be affected and the Organisation which, after consulting other Parties, and international organisations as appropriate, shall in accordance with article 15 promptly recommend to the Party the most appropriate procedures to adopt. The Party shall follow these recommendations to the maximum extent feasible consistent with the time within which action must be taken and with the general obligation to avoid damage to the marine environment and shall inform the Organisation of the action it takes. The Parties pledge themselves to assist one another in such situations.<lf>   2\. This article does not apply with respect to materials in whatever form produced for biological and chemical warfare referred to in paragraph 6 of Section A of Annex I.<lf>   3\. Any Party may waive its rights under paragraph 1 at the time of, or subsequent to ratification, acceptance or approval of, or accession to this Protocol.<lf>                                  Article 11<lf>                             ISSUANCE OF PERMITS<lf>   1\. Each Party shall designate an appropriate authority or authorities to:<lf>   (a) issue the special permits provided for in article 5 and in the emergency circumstances provided for in article 10;<lf>   (b) issue the general permits provided for in article 6;<lf>   (c) keep records of the nature and quantities of the wastes or other matter permitted to be dumped and of the location, date and method of dumping; and<lf>   (d) monitor individually, or in collaboration with other Parties, and competent international organisations, the condition of the Protocol Area for the purposes of this Protocol.<lf>   2\. The appropriate authority or authorities of each Party shall issue the permits provided for in articles 5 and 6 and in the emergency circumstances provided for in article 10 in respect of the wastes or other matter intended for dumping:<lf>   (a) loaded in its territory or at its off-shore terminals; or<lf>   (b) loaded by vessels flying its flag or vessels or aircraft of its registry when the loading occurs in the territory or at the offshore terminals of a State not Party to this Protocol.<lf>   3\. In issuing permits under paragraphs 1 (a) and (b) the appropriate authority or authorities shall comply with Annex III together with such additional criteria, measures and requirements as they may consider relevant.<lf>                                 Article 12<lf>                      IMPLEMENTATION AND ENFORCEMENT<lf>   1\. Each Party shall apply the measures required to implement this Protocol to all:<lf>   (a) vessels flying its flag and vessels and aircraft of its registry;<lf>   (b) vessels and aircraft loading in its territory or at its offshore terminals wastes or other matter which are to be dumped; and<lf>   (c) vessels, aircraft and fixed or floating platforms believed to be engaged in dumping in areas under its jurisdiction.<lf>   2\. Each Party shall take in its territory appropriate measures to prevent and punish conduct in contravention of the provisions of this Protocol.<lf>   3\. The Parties agree to co-operate in the development of procedures for the effective application of this Protocol particularly on the high seas, including procedures for the reporting of vessels and aircraft observed dumping in contravention of the Protocol.<lf>   4\. This Protocol shall not apply to those vessels and aircraft entitled to sovereign immunity under international law. However, each Party shall ensure by the adoption of appropriate measures that such vessels and aircraft owned or operated by it act in a manner consistent with the object and purpose of this Protocol and shall inform the Organisation accordingly.<lf>                                Article 13<lf>                        ADOPTION OF OTHER MEASURES<lf> Nothing in this Protocol shall affect the right of each Party to adopt other measures, in accordance with the principles of international law, to prevent dumping.<lf>                                Article 14<lf>                     REPORTING OF DUMPING INCIDENTS<lf> Each Party undertakes to issue instructions to its maritime inspection vessels and aircraft and to other appropriate services to report to its authorities any incidents or conditions in the Protocol Area which give rise to suspicions that dumping in contravention of the provisions of this Protocol has occurred or is about to occur. That Party shall, if it considers it appropriate, report accordingly to the Organisation and to any other Party concerned.<lf>                                Article 15<lf>                        INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS<lf> The Parties designate the Organisation to carry out the following functions:<lf>   (a) to assist the Parties, upon request, in the communication of reports in accordance with articles 9 and 14;<lf>   (b) to convey to the Parties concerned all notifications received by the Organisation in accordance with articles 4 (2) and 10;<lf>   (c) to transmit to the International Maritime Organization as the organisation responsible for the secretariat functions under the Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter, 1972 records and any other information received in accordance with article 7;<lf>   (d) to keep itself informed on evolving international standards and the results of research and investigation, and to advise meetings of Parties to this Protocol of such developments and any modification of the Annexes which may become desirable; and<lf>   (e) to carry out other duties assigned to it by the Parties.<lf>                                Article 16<lf>                         MEETING OF THE PARTIES<lf>   1\. Ordinary meetings of the Parties to this Protocol shall be held in conjunction with ordinary meetings of the Parties to the Convention held pursuant to article 22 of the Convention. The Parties to this Protocol may also hold extraordinary meetings in conformity with article 22 of the Convention.<lf>   2\. It shall be the function of the meetings of the Parties to this Protocol to:<lf>   (a) keep under review the implementation of this Protocol, and to consider the efficacy of the measures adopted and the need for any other measures, in particular in the form of annexes;<lf>   (b) study and consider the records of the permits issued in accordance with articles 5, 6, 7 and the emergency situation in article 10, and of the dumping which has taken place;<lf>   (c) review and amend as required any Annex to this Protocol taking into account Annex IV:<lf>   (d) adopt as necessary guidelines for the preparation of records and procedures to be followed in submitting such records for the purposes of article 7;<lf>   (e) develop, adopt and implement in consultation with the Organisation and other competent international organisations procedures pursuant to article 10 including basic criteria for determining emergency circumstances and procedures for consultative advice and the safe disposal, storage or destruction of matter in such circumstances;<lf>   (f) invite, as necessary, the appropriate scientific body or bodies to collaborate with and to advise the Parties and the Organisation on any scientific or technical aspects relevant to this Protocol, including particularly the content and applicability of the Annexes; and<lf>   (g) perform such other functions as may be appropriate for the implementation of this Protocol.<lf>   3\. The adoption of amendments to the Annexes to this Protocol pursuant to article 25 of the Convention shall require a three fourths majority vote of the Parties to this Protocol.<lf>                                Article 17<lf>       RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THIS PROTOCOL AND THE CONVENTION<lf>   1\. The provisions of the Convention relating to any protocol shall apply with respect to the present Protocol.<lf>   2\. The rules of procedures and the financial rules adopted pursuant to article 22 of the Convention shall apply with respect to this Protocol, unless the Parties to this Protocol agree otherwise.<lf> IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorised by their respective Governments, have signed this Protocol.*<lf> DONE at Noumea, New Caledonia on the twenty-fifth day of November in the year one thousand nine hundred and eighty-six, in a single copy in the English and French languages, the two texts being equally authentic.<lf> * Signatures omitted<lf>                                     ANNEX I<lf>                                      - A -<lf> The following substances and materials are listed for the purposes of article 4 of this Protocol.<lf>   1\. Organohalogen compounds.<lf>   2\. Mercury and mercury compounds.<lf>   3\. Cadmium and cadmium compounds.<lf>   4\. Persistent plastics and other persistent synthetic materials, for example, netting and ropes, which may remain in suspension in the sea in such a manner as to interfere materially with fishing, navigation or other legitimate uses of the sea.<lf>   5\. Crude oil and its wastes, refined petroleum products, petroleum distillate residues and any mixtures containing any of these taken on board for the purpose of dumping.<lf>   6\. Materials in whatever form (e.g. solids, liquids, semi-liquids, gases, or in a living state) produced for biological and chemical warfare.<lf>   7\. Organophosphorous compounds.<lf>                                      - B -<lf> 

Section A does not apply to substances, other than substances produced for biological or chemical warfare, which are rapidly rendered harmless by physical, chemical or biological processes in the sea provided they do not:<lf>   - make edible marine organisms unpalatable; or<lf>   - endanger human health or that of marine biota.<lf>   The consultative procedure provided for under article 10 shall be followed by a Party if there is doubt about the harmlessness of the substance.<lf>                                     - C -<lf> This Annex does not apply to wastes or other materials, such as sewage sludges and dredged spoils, containing the matters referred to in paragraphs 1-5 of Section A as trace contaminants. The dumping of such wastes shall be subject to the provisions of Annexes II and III as appropriate.<lf>                                 ANNEX II<lf> The following substances and materials requiring special care are listed for the purposes of article 5 of this Protocol.<lf>                                   - A -<lf> Wastes containing a significant amount of the matters listed below:<lf>   arsenic)<lf>   lead   )<lf>   copper ) and their compounds<lf>   zinc   )<lf>   organosilicon compounds<lf>   cyanides<lf>   fluorides<lf>   pesticides and their by-products not covered in Annex I.<lf>                                   - B -<lf> In the issue of permits for dumping of acids and alkalis, consideration shall be given to the possible presence in such wastes of the substances listed in section A and to the following additional substances:<lf>   beryllium )<lf>   chromium  )<lf>   nickel    ) and their compounds<lf>   vandium   )<lf>                                    - C -<lf> Containers, scrap metal and other bulky wastes liable to sink to the sea bottom which may present a serious obstacle to fishing or navigation.<lf>                                    - D -<lf> Substances which, though of a non-toxic nature, may become harmful due to the quantities in which they are dumped, or which are liable to seriously reduce amenities.<lf>                                    ANNEX III<lf> Provisions to be considered in establishing criteria governing the issue of permits for the dumping of matter at sea, taking into account article 7 of this Protocol, include:<lf>                                     - A -<lf> Characteristics and Composition of the Matter<lf>   1\. Total amount and average composition of matter dumped (e.g. per year).<lf>   2\. Form (e.g. solid, sludge, liquid, or gaseous).<lf>   3\. Properties: physical (e.g. solubility and density), chemical and biochemical (e.g. oxygen demand, nutrients) and biological (e.g. presence of viruses, bacteria, yeasts, parasites).<lf>   4\. Toxicity.<lf>   5\. Persistence: physical, chemical and biological.<lf>   6\. Accumulation and biotransformation in biological materials or sediments.<lf>   7\. Susceptibility to physical, chemical and biochemical changes and interaction in the aquatic environment with other dissolved organic and inorganic materials.<lf>   8\. Probability of production of taints or other changes reducing marketability of resources (e.g. fish, shellfish, etc.).<lf>   9\. In issuing a permit for dumping, Parties should consider whether an adequate scientific basis and sufficient knowledge of the composition and characteristics of the waste or other matter proposed for dumping exist for assessing the impact of such material on the marine environment and human health.<lf>                                    - B -<lf> Characteristics of Dumping Site and Method of Deposit<lf>   1\. Location (e.g. co-ordinates of the dumping area, depth and distance from the coast), location in relation to other areas (e.g. amenity areas, spawning, nursery and fishing areas and exploitable resources).<lf>   2\. Rate of disposal per specific period (e.g. quantity per day, per week, per month).<lf>   3\. Methods of packaging and containment, if any.<lf>   4\. Initial dilution achieved by proposed method of release.<lf>   5\. Dispersal characteristics (e.g. effects of currents, tides and wind on horizontal transport and vertical mixing).<lf>   6\. Water characteristics (e.g. temperature, pH, salinity, stratification, oxygen indices of pollution - dissolved oxygen (DO), chemical oxygen demand (COD), biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), - nitrogen present in organic and mineral form including ammonia, suspended matter, other nutrients and productivity).<lf>   7\. Bottom characteristics (e.g. topography, geochemical and geological characteristics and biological productivity).<lf>   8\. Existence and effects of other dumpings which have been made in the dumping area (e.g. heavy metal background reading and organic carbon content).<lf>   9\. In issuing a permit for dumping, Parties should consider whether an adequate scientific basis exists for assessing the consequences of such dumping, as outlined in this Annex, taking into account seasonal variations.<lf>                                     - C -<lf> General Considerations and Conditions<lf>   1\. Possible effects on amenities (e.g. presence of floating or stranded materials, turbidity, objectionable odour, discolouration and foaming).<lf>   2\. Possible effects on marine life, fish and shellfish culture, fish stocks and fisheries, seaweed harvesting and culture.<lf>   3\. Possible effects on other uses of the sea (e.g. impairment of water quality for industrial use, underwater corrosion of structure, interference with ship operations from floating materials, interference with fishing or navigation through deposit of waste or solid objects on the sea floor and protection of areas of special importance of scientific or conservation purposes).<lf>   4\. The practical availability of alternative land-based methods of treatment, disposal or elimination, or of treatment to render the matter less harmful for dumping at sea.<lf>                                    - D -<lf> References<lf> Reference should also be made to "Guidelines for the Implementation and Uniform Interpretation of Annex III" as adopted by the Consultative Meeting of Contracting Parties to the Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and other Matter, 1972.<lf>                                   ANNEX IV<lf>                    ALLOCATION OF SUBSTANCES TO ANNEXES<lf>   1\. Substances are allocated to Annexes I and II on the grounds of any combination of the following criteria:<lf>   Persistence and degradability,<lf>   Bioaccumulation potential,<lf>   Toxicity to marine life,<lf>   Toxicity to man, domestic animals, marine mammals and birds preying on marine organisms,<lf>   Carcinogenicity and mutagenicity,<lf>   Ability to interfere with other legitimate uses of the sea.<lf>   2\. Annex I substances are those which have a high degree of persistence coupled with:<lf>  a the ability to accumulate to harmful levels in terms of toxicity to marine organisms and their predators, to domestic animals or to man; or<lf>   b the ability to accumulate through marine pathways to levels harmful in terms of carcinogenicity or mutagenicity to domestic animals or to man; or<lf>   c the ability to cause interference with fisheries, amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea.<lf>   3\. Annex II substances are all those considered suitable for inclusion in the Annexes except for those allocated to Annex I.<lf> </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf>
</lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sch>
