**<b>

### <center><name>CUSTOMS TARIFF (ANTI-DUMPING) ACT 1975 - Reprinted as at 31 July 1990 (HISTACT CHAP 386 #DATE 31:07:1990) </name></center>
</b>** *1*The Customs Tariff (Anti-Dumping) Act 1975 as shown in this reprint comprises Act No. 76, 1975 amended as indicated in the Tables below.<lf>                                  Table of Acts<lf> Act<lf> Number         Date          Date of                            Application,<lf> and year       of Assent     commencement                       saving<lf>                                                                 or transitional<lf>                                                                 provisions<lf> Customs Tariff (Anti-Dumping) Act 1975<lf> 76, 1975       20 June       20 June 1975<lf>                1975<lf> Customs Tariff (Anti-Dumping) Amendment Act 1981<lf> 66, 1981       12 June       10 July 1981                       S. 14<lf>                1981<lf> Customs Tariff (Anti-Dumping) Amendment (Off-shore Installations) Act<lf> 1982<lf> 53, 1982       16 June       14 July 1982 (see s. 2)            -<lf>                1982<lf> Customs Tariff (Anti-Dumping) Amendment (Countervailing Duties) Act<lf> 1982<lf> 68, 1982       24 Aug 1982   21 Sept 1982                       -<lf> Customs Tariff (Anti-Dumping) Amendment Act 1982<lf> 114, 1982      22 Nov 1982   1 Jan 1983 (see                    S. 5<lf>                              s. 2 and Gazette  1982, No. S274,<lf>                              p. 3)<lf> Customs Tariff (Anti-Dumping) Amendment Act (No. 2) 1982<lf> 136, 1982      23 Dec 1982   24 Nov 1982                        -<lf> Customs Tariff (Anti-Dumping) Amendment Act (No. 3) 1983<lf> 20, 1983       14 June       1 July 1983 (see s. 2 and          -<lf>                1983          Gazette  1983, No. S136,<lf>                              p. 3)<lf> Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act (No. 2) 1983<lf> 91, 1983       22 Nov 1983   S. 3: 20 Dec 1983 (a)              -<lf> Customs Tariff (Anti-Dumping) Amendment Act 1984<lf> 1, 1984        14 Mar 1984   14 Mar 1984                        -<lf> Customs Administration (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments)<lf> Act 1985<lf> 39, 1985       29 May 1985   10 June 1985 (see s. 2 and         S. 4<lf>                              Gazette  1985, No. S194)<lf> Customs Tariff (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1987<lf> 76, 1987       5 June 1987   1 Jan 1988 (see                    S. 10 (2)<lf>                              s. 2 and Gazette  1987, No. S351)  (am. by 141,<lf>                                                                 1987 s.3)<lf>    as amended by<lf>    Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1987<lf> 141, 1987      18 Dec 1987   S. 3: 1 Jan 1988 (see Gazette      -<lf>                              1987, No. S351) (b)<lf> Customs Tariff (Anti-Dumping) Amendment Act 1988<lf> 69, 1988       15 June       Ss. 1 and 2: 15 June 1988          S. 17<lf>                1988          Ss. 4 (a) and 5: 15 Oct 1987<lf>                              Remainder: 1 Sept 1988 (see s.<lf>                              2 (3) and Gazette  1988,<lf>                              No. S217)<lf> Customs Tariff (Anti-Dumping) Amendment Act 1989<lf> 173, 1989      20 Dec 1989   Ss. 1 and 2: Royal Assent          S. 9<lf>                              Remainder: 21 Dec 1989 (see<lf>                              Gazette  1989, No. S395)<lf> Trade Practices (Misuse of Trans-Tasman Market Power) Act 1990<lf> 70, 1990       16 June       1 July 1990 (see Gazette           -<lf>                1990          No. S172)<lf> ______________________________________________________________________________ __ (a) The Customs Tariff (Anti-Dumping) Act 1975 was amended by section 3 only<lf> of the Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act (No. 2) 1983, subsection 2<lf> (1) of which provides as follows:<lf>   '(1) Subject to this section, this Act shall come into operation on the<lf> twenty-eighth day after the day on which it receives the Royal Assent.'<lf>    (b) The Customs Tariff (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1987 was amended by<lf> section 3 only of the Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1987,<lf> subsection 2 (11) of which provides as follows:<lf>   '(11) The amendments of the Customs Tariff (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act<lf> 1987 made by this Act shall come into operation on the commencement of the<lf> first-mentioned Act.'<lf>                               Table of Amendments<lf> ad.=added or inserted am.=amended rep.=repealed rs.=repealed and substituted<lf> ______________________________________________________________________________ __ Provision affected<lf>           How affected<lf> S. 3<lf>           rep. No. 173,  1989<lf> S. 3A<lf>           ad. No. 39, 1985<lf>           rep. No. 69, 1988<lf> S. 4<lf>           am. No. 66, 1981; No.  53, 1982; No. 1, 1984; No. 39, 1985;<lf>           No. 69, 1988<lf>           rep. No. 173, 1989<lf> Ss. 4AA-4AC<lf>           ad. No. 53, 1982<lf>           rep. No. 69, 1988<lf> S. 4A<lf>           ad. No. 66, 1981<lf>           am. No. 1, 1984; No. 39, 1985; No. 69, 1988<lf>           rep. No. 173,  1989<lf> S. 5<lf>           am. No. 66, 1981; No. 1, 1984; No. 39, 1985; No. 69, 1988<lf>           rep. No. 173,  1989<lf> S. 5AA<lf>           ad. No. 69, 1988<lf>           rep. No. 173,  1989<lf> S. 5A<lf>           ad. No. 1, 1984<lf>           rep. No. 173,  1989<lf> S. 6<lf>           am. No. 66, 1981<lf> S. 8<lf>           am. No. 66, 1981; Nos. 114 and 136, 1982; No. 20, 1983; No. 1, 1984;<lf>           No. 39, 1985; No. 76, 1987; No. 69, 1988; No. 173, 1989; No. 70, 1990<lf> S. 9<lf>           am. No. 66, 1981; No. 136, 1982; No. 91, 1983; No. 1, 1984; No. 39,<lf>           1985; No. 69, 1988; No. 173,  1989; No. 70, 1990<lf> S. 10<lf>           am. No. 66, 1981; Nos. 68, 114 and 136, 1982; No. 20, 1983; No. 1,<lf>           1984; No. 39, 1985; No. 76, 1987; No. 69, 1988; No. 173, 1989<lf> S. 11<lf>           am. No. 66, 1981; No. 136, 1982; No. 1, 1984; No. 39, 1985; No. 69,<lf>           1988; No. 173,  1989<lf> S. 11A<lf>           ad. No. 66, 1981<lf>           rep. No. 173,  1989<lf> S. 12<lf>           am. No. 66, 1981<lf>           rep. No. 173,  1989<lf> Ss. 12A, 12B<lf>           ad. No. 69, 1988<lf>           rep. No. 173,  1989<lf> S. 13<lf>           am. No. 66, 1981<lf>           rep. No. 173,  1989<lf> S. 14<lf>           am. No. 68, 1982<lf>           rep. No. 136, 1982<lf> S. 15<lf>           am. No. 66, 1981; No. 1, 1984<lf>           rep. No. 69, 1988<lf> S. 17<lf>           am. No. 39, 1985<lf>           rep. No. 173, 1989<lf> Ss. 18, 19<lf>           rep. No. 173,  1989<lf> S. 20<lf>           am. No. 39, 1985; No. 69, 1988<lf>           rep. No. 173,  1989<lf> S. 22<lf>           ad. No. 69, 1988<lf>           rep. No. 173,  1989<lf> </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf>
**<b>

### <name>CUSTOMS TARIFF (ANTI-DUMPING) ACT 1975 - TABLE OF PROVISIONS </name>
</b>** 

## TABLE
<tables> <tt>                              TABLE OF PROVISIONS<lf> 

Section<lf> <p>     1\.    Short title<lf> <p>     2\.    Commencement<lf> <p>     6\.    Incorporation<lf> <p>     7\.    Imposition of duties of Customs<lf> <p>     8\.    Dumping duties<lf> <p>     9\.    Third country dumping duties<lf> <p>    10\.    Countervailing duties<lf> <p>    11\.    Third country countervailing duties<lf> <p>    16\.    Duties to be charged separately<lf> <p>    21\.    Special duties to be additional to ordinary duties<lf> <p></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf>
</lf></tt></tables>
**<b>

### <name>CUSTOMS TARIFF (ANTI-DUMPING) ACT 1975 - LONG TITLE </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>         An Act relating to certain Special Duties of Customs<lf> </lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>CUSTOMS TARIFF (ANTI-DUMPING) ACT 1975 - SECT 1 Short title </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   1\. This Act may be cited as the Customs Tariff (Anti-Dumping) Act 1975.*1* SEE NOTES TO FIRST ARTICLE OF THIS CHAPTER . </sect>
**<b>

### <name>CUSTOMS TARIFF (ANTI-DUMPING) ACT 1975 - SECT 2 Commencement </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   2\. This Act shall come into operation on the day on which it receives the Royal Assent.*1* SEE NOTES TO FIRST ARTICLE OF THIS CHAPTER . </sect>
**<b>

### <name>CUSTOMS TARIFF (ANTI-DUMPING) ACT 1975 - SECT 6 Incorporation </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   6\. The Customs Act 1901 (in this Act referred to as the Customs Act) is incorporated and shall be read as one with this Act. </sect>
**<b>

### <name>CUSTOMS TARIFF (ANTI-DUMPING) ACT 1975 - SECT 7 Imposition of duties of Customs </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   7\. Duties of Customs are imposed in accordance with this Act. </sect>
**<b>

### <name>CUSTOMS TARIFF (ANTI-DUMPING) ACT 1975 - SECT 8 Dumping duties </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   8\. (1) This section does not apply to goods that are:<lf>    (a) the produce or manufacture of New Zealand; and<lf>    (b)  imported into Australia after the commencement of this subsection.<lf>   (3) There shall be charged, collected and paid on goods to which this section applies, by virtue of a declaration under subsection 269TG (1) or (2) of the Customs Act, a special duty of Customs, to be known as dumping duty.<lf>   (4) Subject to subsection (5), the dumping duty in respect of goods is a sum equal to the amount by which the amount of the export price of the goods is less than the amount of the normal value of the goods.<lf>   (5) The Minister may, by notice in writing signed by the Minister, direct that the dumping duty in respect of goods is an amount to be ascertained by reference to the value, or to the weight or other measure of quantity, of the goods less the amount, if any, by which that amount exceeds the dumping duty that would be payable in respect of the goods under subsection (4), and the notice has effect accordingly.<lf>   (5A) In exercising his or her powers under subsection (5) in relation to dumping duty in respect of goods, the Minister shall have regard to the desirability of ensuring that the amount of dumping duty in respect of those goods is not greater than is necessary to prevent the injury or a recurrence of the injury, or to remove the hindrance, referred to in paragraph 269TG (1) (b) or (2) (b) of the Customs Act, as the case requires.<lf>   (5B) Where the Minister signs a notice under subsection (5), the Minister shall cause a copy of that notice to be published in the Gazette unless in the opinion of the Minister, the publication of that notice would adversely affect the business or commercial interests of any person.<lf>   (6) A notice under subsection (5) applies to goods entered for home consumption on or after a date specified in the notice, which may be a date earlier than the date of publication of the notice but shall not be a date on or before a date on which an earlier notice under that subsection applied to the goods.<lf>   (7) The Minister may, by notice in writing, exempt goods from dumping duty if he is satisfied:<lf>    (a) that like or directly competitive goods are not offered for sale in<lf> Australia to all purchasers on equal terms under like conditions having regard to the custom and usage of trade;<lf>    (b)  that a Commercial Tariff Concession Order under Part XVA of the Customs<lf> Act 1901 in respect of the goods is in force;<lf>    (c)  that:<lf>          (i)  where the goods are goods to which section 11 of the Customs<lf> Tariff Act 1987 applies-the item in Schedule 4 to that Act that applies to the goods is expressed to apply to goods, or to a class or kind of goods, as prescribed by by-law; and<lf>          (ii)  suitably equivalent goods the produce or manufacture of<lf> Australia are not reasonably available;<lf>    (d)  that:<lf>          (i)  the tariff classification in Schedule 3 to that Act that applies<lf> to the goods is such that no duty is payable in respect of the goods or the duty payable in respect of the goods is at a rate equivalent to a rate payable under Schedule 4 on the goods; and<lf>          (ii)  suitably equivalent goods the produce or manufacture of<lf> Australia are not reasonably available; or<lf>    (e)  that the goods, being articles of merchandise, are for use as samples<lf> for the sale of similar goods.<lf>   (8)  Where the Minister exempts goods from the dumping duty under subsection (7) by reason of his being satisfied as to a matter specified in paragraph (7) (a), (c) or (d), the instrument of exemption shall be published in the Gazette. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>CUSTOMS TARIFF (ANTI-DUMPING) ACT 1975 - SECT 9 Third country dumping duties </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   9\. (1) This section does not apply to goods that are:<lf>    (a) the produce or manufacture of New Zealand; and<lf>    (b) imported into Australia after the commencement of this subsection.<lf>   (3) There shall be charged, collected and paid on goods to which this section applies, by virtue of a declaration under subsection 269TH (1) or (2) of the Customs Act, a special duty of Customs, to be known as third country dumping duty.<lf>   (4) Subject to subsection (5), the third country dumping duty in respect of goods is a sum equal to the amount by which the amount of the export price of the goods is less than the amount of the normal value of the goods.<lf>   (5) The Minister may, by notice in writing signed by the Minister, direct that the third country dumping duty in respect of goods is an amount to be ascertained by reference to the value, or to the weight or other measure of quantity, of the goods less the amount, if any, by which that amount exceeds the third country dumping duty that would be payable in respect of the goods under subsection (4), and the notice has effect accordingly.<lf>   (5A) In exercising his or her powers under subsection (5) in relation to third country dumping duty in respect of goods, the Minister shall have regard to the desirability of ensuring that the amount of third country dumping duty in respect of those goods is not greater than is necessary to prevent the injury, or a recurrence of the injury, referred to in paragraph 269TH (1) (b) or (2) (b) of the Customs Act, as the case requires.<lf>   (5B) Where the Minister signs a notice under subsection (5), the Minister shall cause a copy of that notice to be published in the Gazette unless in the opinion of the Minister, the publication of that notice would adversely affect the business or commercial interests of any person.<lf>   (6) A notice under subsection (5) applies to goods entered for home consumption after a date specified in the notice, which may be a date earlier than the date of publication of the notice but shall not be a date on or before a date on which an earlier notice under that subsection applied to the goods.<lf>   (7) The Minister may, by notice in writing, exempt goods from third country dumping duty if he is satisfied:<lf>    (a)  that like or directly competitive goods are not offered or sold in<lf> Australia to all purchasers on equal terms under like conditions having regard to the custom and usage of trade; or<lf>    (c)  that the goods, being articles of merchandise, are for use as samples<lf> for the sale of similar goods.<lf>   (8) Where the Minister exempts goods from the third country dumping duty under subsection (7) by reason of his being satisfied as to a matter specified under paragraph (7) (a), the instrument of exemption shall be published in the Gazette. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>CUSTOMS TARIFF (ANTI-DUMPING) ACT 1975 - SECT 10 Countervailing duties </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   10\. (3) There shall be charged, collected and paid on goods to which this sect applies, by virtue of a declaration under subsection 269TJ (1), (2), (4), (5) or (6) of the Customs Act, a special duty of Customs, to be known as countervailing duty.<lf>   (4) Subject to subsection (5), the countervailing duty in respect of goods is:<lf>    (a)  in the case of countervailing duty in respect of goods to which this<lf> section applies by virtue of a declaration under subsection 269TJ (1), (2) or (4) of the Customs Act-a sum equal to the amount of the subsidy, bounty, reduction or remission of freight or other financial assistance that has been paid or granted, directly or indirectly, upon the production, manufacture, carriage or export of the goods; or<lf>    (b)  in the case of countervailing duty in respect of goods to which this<lf> section applies by virtue of a declaration under subsection 269TJ (5) or (6) of the Customs Act, a sum equal to:<lf>          (i) if the prescribed assistance that has been paid or granted,<lf> directly or indirectly, in relation to the goods was financial assistance-the amount of that financial assistance; or<lf>          (ii)  if the prescribed assistance that has been granted, directly or<lf> indirectly, in relation to the goods was not financial assistance, whichever of the following is determined by the Minister to be appropriate:<lf>                (A) the cost of granting that assistance;<lf>                (B) the value of that assistance to the person to whom it was<lf>                granted.<lf>   (5) The Minister may, by notice in writing signed by the Minister, direct that the countervailing duty in respect of goods is an amount to be ascertained by reference to the value, or to the weight or other measure of quantity, of the goods less the amount, if any, by which that amount exceeds the countervailing duty that would be payable in respect of the goods under subsection (4), and the notice has effect accordingly.<lf>   (5A) In exercising his or her powers under subsection (5) in relation to countervailing duty in respect of goods to which this section applies by virtue of subsection 269TJ (1) or (2) of the Customs Act, the Minister shall have regard to the desirability of ensuring that the amount of countervailing duty in respect of those goods is not greater than is necessary to prevent the injury or a recurrence of the injury, or to remove the hindrance, referred to in paragraph 269TJ (1) (b) or (2) (b) of that Act, as the case requires.<lf>   (5B) Where the Minister signs a notice under subsection (5), the Minister shall cause a copy of that notice to be published in the Gazette unless in the opinion of the Minister, the publication of that notice would adversely affect the business or commercial interests of any person.<lf>   (6) A notice under subsection (5) applies to goods entered for home consumption after a date specified in the notice, which may be a date earlier than the date of publication of the notice but shall not be a date on or before a date on which an earlier notice under that subsection applied to the goods.<lf>   (7) Where the Minister has determined, under subsection 269TJ (8) of the Customs Act, the amount of any subsidy, bounty, reduction or remission of freight or other financial assistance in relation to goods to which this section applies by virtue of a declaration under subsection 269TJ (1), (2) or (4) of that Act, that amount is to be taken to be the amount of that subsidy, bounty, reduction or remission of freight or other financial assistance in relation to those goods for the purposes of this section.<lf>   (7A) Where the Minister has determined, under subsection 269TJ (9) of the Customs Act, the amount, cost or value of prescribed assistance in relation to goods to which this section applies by virtue of a declaration under subsection 269TJ (5) or (6) of that Act, that amount, cost or value is to be taken to be the amount, cost or value of that prescribed assistance in relation to those goods for the purposes of this section.<lf>   (8) The Minister may, by notice in writing, exempt goods from countervailing duty if he or she is satisfied:<lf>    (a) that like or directly competitive goods are not offered for sale in<lf> Australia to all purchasers on equal terms under like conditions having regard to the custom and usage of trade;<lf>    (aa)  that a Commercial Tariff Concession Order under Part XVA of the<lf> Customs Act 1901 in respect of the goods is in force;<lf>    (b) that:<lf>          (i) where the goods are goods to which section 11 of the Customs<lf> Tariff Act 1987 applies-the item in Schedule 4 to that Act that applies to the goods is expressed to apply to goods, or to a class or kind of goods, as prescribed by by-law; and<lf>          (ii) suitably equivalent goods the produce or manufacture of Australia<lf> are not reasonably available;<lf>    (c) that:<lf>          (i) the tariff classification in Schedule 3 to that Act that applies<lf> to the goods is such that no duty is payable in respect of the goods or the duty payable in respect of the goods is at a rate equivalent to a rate payable under Schedule 4 on the goods; and<lf>          (ii) suitably equivalent goods the produce or manufacture of Australia<lf> are not reasonably available; or<lf>    (d) that the goods, being articles of merchandise, are for use as samples<lf> for the sale of similar goods.<lf>   (9) Where the Minister exempts goods from countervailing duty under subsection (8) because he or she is satisfied as to a matter specified in paragraphs (8) (a), (b) and (c), the instrument of exemption shall be published in the Gazette. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>CUSTOMS TARIFF (ANTI-DUMPING) ACT 1975 - SECT 11 Third country countervailing duties </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   11\. (3) There shall be charged, collected and paid on goods to which this sect applies, by virtue of a declaration under subsection 269TK (1) or (2) of the Customs Act, a special duty of Customs, to be known as the third country countervailing duty.<lf>   (4) Subject to subsection (5), the third country countervailing duty in respect of goods is a sum equal to the amount of the subsidy, bounty, reduction or remission of freight or other financial assistance that has been paid or granted, directly or indirectly, upon the production, manufacture, carriage or export of the goods.<lf>   (5) The Minister may, by notice in writing signed by the Minister, direct that the third country countervailing duty in respect of goods is an amount to be ascertained by reference to the value, or to the weight or other measure of quantity, of the goods less the amount, if any, by which that amount exceeds the third country countervailing duty that would be payable in respect of the goods under subsection (4), and the notice has effect accordingly.<lf>   (5A) In exercising his or her powers under subsection (5) in relation to third country countervailing duty in respect of goods, the Minister shall have regard to the desirability of ensuring that the amount of third country countervailing duty in respect of those goods is not greater than is necessary to prevent the injury, or a recurrence of the injury, referred to in paragraph 269TK (1) (b) or (2) (b) of the Customs Act,  as the case requires.<lf>   (5B) Where the Minister signs a notice under subsection (5), the Minister shall cause a copy of that notice to be published in the Gazette unless in the opinion of the Minister, the publication of that notice would adversely affect the  business or commercial interests of any person.<lf>   (6) A notice under subsection (5) applies to goods entered for home consumption after a date specified in the notice, which may be a date earlier than the date of publication of the notice but shall not be a date on or before a date on which an earlier notice under that subsection applied to the goods.<lf>   (7) Where the Minister has determined, under subsection 269TK (3) of the Customs Act, the amount of any subsidy, bounty, reduction or remission of freight or other financial assistance in relation to goods to which this section applies by virtue of a declaration under subsection 269TK (1) or (2) of that Act, that amount is to be taken to be the amount of that subsidy, bounty, reduction or remission of freight or other financial assistance in relation to those goods for the purposes of this section.<lf>   (8) The Minister may, by notice in writing, exempt goods from third country countervailing duty if he or she is satisfied:<lf>    (a)  that like or directly competitive goods are not offered or sold in<lf> Australia to all purchasers on equal terms under like conditions having regard to the custom and usage of trade; or<lf>    (b)  that the goods, being articles of merchandise, are for use as samples<lf> for the sale of similar goods.<lf>   (9) Where the Minister exempts goods from third country countervailing duty under subsection (8) because he or she is satisfied as to a matter specified under paragraph (8) (a), the instrument of exemption shall be published in the Gazette. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>CUSTOMS TARIFF (ANTI-DUMPING) ACT 1975 - SECT 16 Duties to be charged separately </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   16\. The several duties imposed by this Act shall be separately charged, notwithstanding that more than one duty applies to any particular goods. </sect>
**<b>

### <name>CUSTOMS TARIFF (ANTI-DUMPING) ACT 1975 - SECT 21 Special duties to be additional to ordinary duties </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   21\. The special duties of Customs payable under this Act are in addition to such other duties of Customs (if any) as are payable under any other Act. </sect>
