**<b>

### <center><name>SEAT OF GOVERNMENT (ADMINISTRATION) ACT 1910 - Reprinted as at 19 December 1973 (HISTACT2 CHAP 361 #DATE 19:12:1973) </name></center>
</b>** 
**<b>

### <name>SEAT OF GOVERNMENT (ADMINISTRATION) ACT 1910-1973 - TABLE OF PROVISIONS </name>
</b>** 

## TABLE
<tables> <tt><lf>              SEAT  OF  GOVERNMENT  (ADMINISTRATION)  ACT  1910-1973<lf> <lf>                              TABLE  OF  PROVISIONS<lf> <lf>                               PART  I-PRELIMINARY<lf> Section<lf>   1\.        Short title<lf>   2\.        Commencement<lf> <lf>                            PART  II-APPLICATION  OF  STATE  LAWS<lf> <lf>   3\.        Certain State laws not to continue in Territory<lf>   4\.        Effect of continuance of State laws<lf> <lf>                        PART  III-APPLICATION  OF  COMMONWEALTH  ACT<lf> <lf>   5\.        Application of Conciliation and Arbitration Act<lf>   6\.        (Repealed)<lf>   7\.        Application of Secret Commissions Act 1905<lf>   7A.       Resumption of land held under Crown leases<lf>   8\.        Postal and telegraphic rates and charges<lf> <lf>                             PART  IV-DISPOSAL  OF  CROWN  LANDS<lf> <lf>   9\.        Disposal of Crown lands<lf>   9A.       Dealings with Crown lands<lf>   10, 11\.  (Repealed)<lf> <lf>                                      PART  V-ORDINANCES<lf> <lf>   12\.       Ordinances<lf> <lf>                                    PART  VI-MISCELLANEOUS<lf> <lf>   12A.      Modification or variation of plan of city and environs<lf>   12B.      Supply of water or electricity to persons outside the Territory<lf>   12C.      Delegation by Minister<lf>   12D.      Regulations<lf> <lf>                                     SCHEDULE<lf> Laws of the State of New South Wales which are not to continue in force in the<lf>                                    Territory </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></tt></tables>
**<b>

### <name>SEAT OF GOVERNMENT (ADMINISTRATION) ACT 1910-1973 - SECT. 1\. Short title. </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>              SEAT  OF  GOVERNMENT  (ADMINISTRATION)  ACT  1910-1973<lf> An Act to provide for the Provisional Government of the Territory for the Seat of Government of the Commonwealth.<lf> Heading substituted by No. 216, 1973, s. 3.<lf>                               PART  I-PRELIMINARY<lf> Short title amended; No. 32, 1918, s. 2.<lf>   1\. This Act may be cited as the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1973.*<lf> </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>SEAT OF GOVERNMENT (ADMINISTRATION) ACT 1910-1973 - SECT. 2\. Commencement. </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   2\. This Act shall commence on the proclaimed day* referred to in section five of the Seat of Government Acceptance Act 1909.<lf> </lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>SEAT OF GOVERNMENT (ADMINISTRATION) ACT 1910-1973 - SECT. 3\. Heading substituted by No. 216, 1973, s. 3\. </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>                      PART  II-APPLICATION  OF  STATE  LAWS<lf> Certain State laws not to continue in Territory.<lf>   3\. Notwithstanding anything in section six of the Seat of Government Acceptance Act 1909, the laws of the State of New South Wales described in the Schedule to this Act shall not continue in force in the Territory.<lf> </lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>SEAT OF GOVERNMENT (ADMINISTRATION) ACT 1910-1973 - SECT. 4\. Effect of continuance of State laws. </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   4\. Where any law of the State of New South Wales continues in force in the Territory by virtue of section six of the Seat of Government Acceptance Act 1909, it shall, subject to any Ordinance made by the Governor-General, have effect in the Territory as if it were a law of the Territory:<lf> <lf>   Provided that, with respect to any such law, the Governor-General may by Ordinance declare that it shall, while the Ordinance remains in force, but subject to the provisions of the Ordinance, have effect in the Territory, and continue to be administered by the authorities of the State, as if the Territory continued to form part of the State.<lf> </lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>SEAT OF GOVERNMENT (ADMINISTRATION) ACT 1910-1973 - SECT. 5\. Heading substituted by No. 216, 1973, s. 3\. </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>                  PART  III-APPLICATION  OF  COMMONWEALTH  ACT<lf> Application of Conciliation and Arbitration Act.<lf> Substituted by No. 38, 1972, s. 3.<lf>   5\. (1) The Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1972 applies to industrial disputes in the Territory as if-<lf> <lf>   (a)  from paragraph (a) of the definition of ''Industrial dispute'' in section four of that Act the words ''which extends beyond the limits of any one State'' were omitted; and<lf> <lf>   (b)  from paragraph (b) of that definition the words ''which so extends'' were omitted.<lf> 

  (2) For the purposes of the application of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1972 in accordance with the last preceding sub- section-<lf> <lf>   (a)  a person employed, otherwise than in an industry, for the performance of work wholly or mainly in the Territory shall be deemed to be employed in an industry; and<lf> <lf>   (b)  an industrial dispute in relation to the employment of persons employed for the performance of work wholly or mainly in the Territory shall be deemed to be an industrial dispute in the Territory.<lf> <p>  (3) The powers of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission do not extend to employment in respect of which a tribunal established by an Ordinance in force under this Act, whether made before or after the commencement of this sub-section, has power to hear and determine disputes, claims or matters relating to the terms and conditions of the employment.<lf> <p>  (4) An Ordinance under this Act may make provision for a member of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to constitute, or to be a member of, a tribunal of the kind referred to in the last preceding sub-section, and nothing in this section or in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904-1972 prevents a member of the Commission from accepting appointment, or performing duties, as, or as a member of, such a tribunal.<lf> <p>  (5) Nothing in this section affects the operation of the Public Service Arbitration Act 1920-1972.<lf> Section 6 repealed by No. 111, 1965, s. 4.<lf>                          *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *<lf> </lf></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf>
</lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>SEAT OF GOVERNMENT (ADMINISTRATION) ACT 1910-1973 - SECT. 7\. Application of Secret Commissions Act 1905\. </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   7\. The Secret Commissions Act 1905 shall apply in the Territory to trade and commerce in or with the Territory, as if the words ''with other countries and among the States'' were omitted from section two of that Act.<lf> </lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>SEAT OF GOVERNMENT (ADMINISTRATION) ACT 1910-1973 - SECT. 7A. Resumption of land held under Crown leases. </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect> Inserted by No. 70, 1955, s. 5.<lf>   7A. The application of the Lands Acquisition Act 1955 in relation to land in the Territory does not prevent or affect the making or operation of a provision of an Ordinance or other law of the Territory (including an Ordinance or other law made before the commencement of this section) for or in relation to the resumption of land held under leases granted by or on behalf of the Crown in accordance with the provisions of those leases or otherwise on just terms.<lf> </lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>SEAT OF GOVERNMENT (ADMINISTRATION) ACT 1910-1973 - SECT. 8\. Postal and telegraphic rates and charges. </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   8\. The rates and charges for postal articles and telegrams in the Territory and to and from the Territory shall be the same as if the Territory continued to be part of the State of New South Wales.<lf> </lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>SEAT OF GOVERNMENT (ADMINISTRATION) ACT 1910-1973 - SECT. 9\. Heading substituted by No. 216, 1973, s. 3\. </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>                       PART  IV-DISPOSAL  OF  CROWN  LANDS<lf> Disposal of Crown lands.<lf> Amended by No. 4, 1933, s. 7.<lf>   9\. No Crown lands in the Territory shall be sold or disposed of for any estate of freehold, except in pursuance of some contract entered into, or the right to enter into which existed before the commencement of this Act, or except for the purpose of giving effect to some right which existed before the commencement of this Act under or by virtue of any law of the State of New South Wales which has continued in force in the Territory by virtue of section six of the Seat of Government Acceptance Act 1909, or of that Act as subsequently amended.<lf> </lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>SEAT OF GOVERNMENT (ADMINISTRATION) ACT 1910-1973 - SECT. 9A. Dealings with Crown lands. </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect> Substituted by No. 70, 1955, s. 5.<lf>   9A.* The application of the Lands Acquisition Act 1955 in relation to land in the Territory does not prevent or affect the making or operation of a provision of an Ordinance or other law of the Territory (including an Ordinance or other law made before the commencement of this section) by virtue of which-<lf> <lf>   (a)  lands in the Territory acquired by or vested in the Commonwealth may be disposed of or otherwise dealt with;<lf> <lf>   (b)  instruments, receipts and other documents in relation to any such lands may be executed; or<lf> <lf>   (c)  rights, duties and liabilities in relation to any such lands are or may be acquired, conferred or imposed.<lf> Section 10 and the heading to that section repealed by No. 70, 1955, s. 5.*<lf> Section 11 repealed by No. 90, 1970, s. 2; and the heading to that section omitted by No. 216, 1973, s. 3.<lf>                          *   *   *   *   *   *   *   *<lf> </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>SEAT OF GOVERNMENT (ADMINISTRATION) ACT 1910-1973 - SECT. 12\. Heading substituted by No. 216, 1973, s. 3\. </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>                                PART  V-ORDINANCES<lf> Ordinances.<lf> Sub-section (1) substituted by No. 90, 1970, s. 3.<lf>   12\. (1)* The Governor-General may make Ordinances for the peace, order and good government of the Territory.<lf> Amended by No. 86, 1939, s. 4; and No. 90, 1959, s. 3\. 

  (2) Every such Ordinance shall-<lf> <lf>   (a)  be notified in the Gazette;<lf> <lf>   (b)  take effect-<lf> <lf>        (i)  from the date of notification;<lf> <lf>      (ii)  where another date (whether before or after the date of notification) is specified in the Ordinance, from the date specified; or<lf> <lf>     (iii)  where the Ordinance so provides, from such date as is fixed by the Minister by notice in the Gazette*; and<lf> <lf>   (c)  be laid before each House of the Parliament within fifteen sitting days of that House after the day on which the Ordinance is made.<lf> Inserted by No. 14, 1940, s. 2\. <p>  (2A) A notice in the Gazette of any such Ordinance having been made, and of the place where copies of the Ordinance can be purchased, shall be sufficient compliance with the requirement of paragraph (a) of the last preceding sub-section.<lf> Substituted by No. 90, 1959, s. 3\. <p>  (3) If an Ordinance is not laid before each House of the Parliament in accordance with paragraph (c) of sub-section (2) of this section, it shall be void and of no effect.<lf> Substituted by No. 24, 1963, s. 2\. <p>  (4) If either House of the Parliament, in pursuance of a motion of which notice has been given within fifteen sitting days after an Ordinance has been laid before that House, passes a resolution disallowing the Ordinance or a part of the Ordinance, the Ordinance or part so disallowed shall thereupon cease to have effect.<lf> Substituted by No. 24, 1963, s. 2\. <p>  (5) If, at the expiration of fifteen sitting days after notice of a motion to disallow an Ordinance or part of an Ordinance has been given in a House of the Parliament, being notice given within fifteen sitting days after the Ordinance has been laid before that House-<lf> <lf>   (a)  the notice has not been withdrawn and the motion has not been called on; or<lf> <lf>   (b)  the motion has been called on, moved and seconded and has not been withdrawn or otherwise disposed of,<lf> the Ordinance or part, as the case may be, specified in the motion shall thereupon be deemed to have been disallowed.<lf> Inserted by No. 24, 1963, s. 2\. <p>  (5A) If, before the expiration of fifteen sitting days after notice of a motion to disallow an Ordinance or part of an Ordinance has been given in a House of the Parliament-<lf> <lf>   (a)  that House is dissolved or, being the House of Representatives, expires, or the Parliament is prorogued; and<lf> <lf>   (b)  at the time of the dissolution, expiry or prorogation, as the case may be-<lf> <lf>       (i)  the notice has not been withdrawn and the motion has not been called on; or<lf> <lf>      (ii)  the motion has been called on, moved and seconded and has not been withdrawn or otherwise disposed of,<lf> the Ordinance shall, for the purposes of the last two preceding sub-sections, be deemed to have been laid before that House on the first sitting day of that House after the dissolution, expiry or prorogation, as the case may be.<lf> Inserted by No. 90, 1959, s. 3\. <p>  (6) Where an Ordinance or a part of an Ordinance is disallowed, or is deemed to have been disallowed, under this section, the disallowance has the same effect as a repeal of the Ordinance or the part of the Ordinance, as the case may be, except that, if a provision of the Ordinance or of the part of the Ordinance amended or repealed a law in force immediately before that provision came into operation, the disallowance revives the previous law from and including the date of the disallowance as if the disallowed provision had not been made.<lf> Inserted by No. 90, 1959, s. 3; amended by No. 24, 1963, s. 2\. <p>  (7) If an Ordinance or a part of an Ordinance is disallowed, or is deemed to have been disallowed, under this section, and an Ordinance containing a provision being the same in substance as a provision so disallowed, or deemed to have been disallowed, is made within six months after the date of the disallowance, that provision is void and of no effect, unless-<lf> <lf>   (a)  in the case of an Ordinance, or a part of an Ordinance, disallowed by resolution-the resolution has been rescinded by the House of the Parliament by which it was passed; or<lf> <lf>   (b)  in the case of an Ordinance, or a part of an Ordinance, deemed to have been disallowed-the House of the Parliament in which notice of the motion to disallow the Ordinance or part was given has approved, by resolution, the making of a provision the same in substance as the provision deemed to have been disallowed.<lf> Inserted by No. 90, 1959, s. 3\. <p>  (8) All regulations made under an Ordinance shall be laid before each House of the Parliament within fifteen sitting days of that House after the day on which the regulations are made and, if they not so laid before each House of the Parliament, shall be void and of no effect.<lf> Inserted by No. 90, 1959, s. 3\. <p>  (9) Sub-sections (4) to (7), inclusive, of this section apply to and in relation to regulations laid before a House of the Parliament as if the references in those sub-sections to an Ordinance were references to regulations. <lf> Inserted by No. 90, 1959, s. 3\. <p>  (10) In this section-<lf> <lf>   ''Ordinance'' means an Ordinance made under this Act;<lf> <lf>   ''regulations'' includes rules and by-laws.<lf> </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf>
</lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>SEAT OF GOVERNMENT (ADMINISTRATION) ACT 1910-1973 - SECT. 12A. Heading inserted by No. 216, 1973, s. 3\. </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>                              PART  VI-MISCELLANEOUS<lf> Modification or variation of plan of city and environs.<lf> Added by No. 2, 1930, s. 5\. Sub-section (1) amended by No. 90, 1959, s. 4.<lf>   12A.* (1) The Minister may at any time, by writing under his hand, modify or vary the plan of lay-out of the city of Canberra and its environs, published in the Gazette of the nineteenth day of November, One thousand nine hundred and twenty-five,* as previously modified or varied, but no such modification or variation shall be made until after the expiration of twelve days after notice of intention, published in the Gazette, so to modify or vary the plan has been given.<lf> Substituted by No. 90, 1959, s. 4\. 

  (2) A copy of the instrument by which any modification or variation of the plan has been made, together with an explanatory statement by the Minister, shall be laid before each House of the Parliament within fifteen sitting days of that House after the making of the modification or variation.<lf> Amended by No. 90, 1959, s. 4\. <p>  (3) If either House of the Parliament passes a resolution, of which notice has been given at any time within six sitting days of that House after the instrument has been laid before it, disallowing the modification or variation made by the instrument, the modification or variation shall cease to have effect.<lf> <p>  (4) The Minister shall not depart from, or do anything inconsistent with, the plan of the city published in the Gazette, with such modifications or variations as have been made prior to the date of the commencement of this section or as are made in pursuance of this section.<lf> </lf></p></lf></p></lf>
</lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>SEAT OF GOVERNMENT (ADMINISTRATION) ACT 1910-1973 - SECT. 12B. Supply of water or electricity to persons outside the Territory. </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect> Added by No. 2, 1930, s. 5.<lf>   12B. The Minister may, on such terms and conditions as are agreed upon, supply water or electricity from the Territory to any person outside the Territory.<lf> </lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>SEAT OF GOVERNMENT (ADMINISTRATION) ACT 1910-1973 - SECT. 12C. Delegation by Minister. </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect> Added by No. 2, 1930, s. 5.<lf>   12C. (1) The Minister may, by writing under his hand, delegate to any person all or any of his powers or functions under any Ordinance made under this Act.<lf> 

  (2) Every delegation under this section shall be revocable at will, and no delegation shall prevent the exercise of any power or function by the Minister. <lf> </lf>
</lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>SEAT OF GOVERNMENT (ADMINISTRATION) ACT 1910-1973 - SECT. 12D. Regulations. </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect> Added by No. 2, 1930, s. 5.<lf>   12D. The Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act, prescribing all matters which are required or permitted to be prescribed, or which are necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Act.<lf>                                -----------------<lf> </lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>SEAT OF GOVERNMENT (ADMINISTRATION) ACT 1910-1973 - SCHEDULE </name>
</b>** 

## SCH
<sch> Amended by No. 216, 1973, s. 3.<lf>                                     SCHEDULE<lf> LAWS  OF  THE  STATE  OF  NEW  SOUTH  WALES  WHICH  ARE  NOT  TO  CONTINUE IN<lf>                            FORCE  IN  THE  TERRITORY.<lf> <lf>   Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1899 (1899 No. 3).<lf>   Industrial Disputes Act 1908 (1908 No. 3).<lf>   Industrial Disputes Amendment Act 1908 (1908 No. 24).<lf>   Industrial Disputes (Amendment) Act 1909 (1909 No. 26).<lf>   Local Government Act 1906 (1906 No. 56).<lf>   Local Government (Loans) Act 1907 (1907 No. 1).<lf>   Local Government (Amending) Act 1908 (1908 No. 28).<lf>   Country Towns Water and Sewerage Act 1880, and all Acts amending or extending it.<lf>   All Acts imposing rates, taxes, or duties.<lf> ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -- <lf> </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sch>
**<b>

### <name>SEAT OF GOVERNMENT (ADMINISTRATION) ACT 1910-1973 - NOTES </name>
</b>** <lf>                                      NOTES<lf> 1\.  The Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1973 comprises the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910 as amended by the other Acts specified in the following table:<lf> ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- <lf> <lf>                                 Number                       Date of<lf>     Act                         and year        Date of<lf>                                                 Assent       commencement<lf> ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- <lf> <lf>     Seat of Government<lf>     (Administration) Act<lf>     1910                        No. 25, 1910    25 Nov 1910  1 Jan 1911<lf>     Judiciary Act 1927          No. 9, 1927     8 Apr 1927   2 Sept 1929 (see<lf>                                                              Gazette 1929, p.<lf>                                                              1854)<lf>     Seat of Government<lf>     (Administration) Act<lf>     1928                        No. 44, 1928    28 Sept 1928 29 Dec 1928 (see<lf>                                                              Gazette 1928, p.<lf>                                                              3499)<lf>     Seat of Government<lf>     (Administration) Act<lf>     1930                        No. 2, 1930     29 Mar 1930  1 May 1930 (see<lf>                                                              Gazette 1930, p.<lf>                                                              891)<lf>     Seat of Government<lf>     (Administration) Act<lf>     1931                        No. 9, 1931     1 July 1931  17 Aug 1931 (see<lf>                                                              Gazette 1931, p.<lf>                                                              1311)<lf>     Seat of Government<lf>     (Administration) Act<lf>     1933                        No. 4, 1933     30 May 1933  30 May 1933<lf>     Seat of Government<lf>     (Administration) Act<lf>     1939                        No. 86, 1939    15 Dec 1939  12 Jan 1940<lf>     Seat of Government<lf>     (Administration) Act<lf>     1940                        No. 14, 1940    27 May 1940  24 June 1940<lf>     Commonwealth<lf>     Conciliation and<lf>     Arbitration Act 1947        No. 10, 1947    20 May 1947  8 Oct 1947 (see<lf>                                                              Gazette 1947, p.<lf>                                                              2915)<lf>     Australian Capital<lf>     Territory and Jervis Bay<lf>     (Lands Acquisition) Act<lf>     1955                        No. 70, 1955    4 Nov 1955   16 Feb 1956 (see<lf>                                                              Gazette 1956, p.<lf>                                                              472)<lf>     Seat of Government<lf>     (Administration) Act<lf>     1959                        No. 90, 1959    4 Dec 1959   4 Dec 1959<lf>     Seat of Government<lf>     (Administration) Act<lf>     1963                        No. 24, 1963    28 May 1963  25 June 1963<lf>     Trade Practices Act 1965    No. 111, 1965   18 Dec 1965  Ss. 1, 5, 8, 106,<lf>                                                              Pts II and III:<lf>                                                              18 Dec 1965<lf>                                                              S. 2: 27 Sept 1966 <lf>                                                              Remainder: 1 Sept<lf>                                                              1967 (see Gazette<lf>                                                              1967, p. 3975)<lf>     Seat of Government<lf>     (Administration) Act<lf>     1970                        No. 90, 1970    2 Nov 1970   30 Nov 1970<lf>     Seat of Government<lf>     (Administration) Act<lf>     1972                        No. 38, 1972    2 June 1972  2 June 1972<lf>     Statute Law Revision Act<lf>     1973                        No. 216, 1973   19 Dec 1973  31 Dec 1973<lf> ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- <lf> <lf>    As to the application of some of the sections of this Act to the Jervis Bay Territory, see s. 4 of the Jervis Bay Territory Acceptance Act 1915-1973.<lf> 2.-S. 2-The proclaimed day referred to in section 5 of the Seat of Government Acceptance Act 1909 is 1 January 1911; see Gazette 1910, p. 1851.<lf> 3\.  Section 9A was originally inserted by section 3 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1939\. It provided as follows:<lf> <lf>    ''9A. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other Act, but subject to this Act, all lands in the Territory acquired by or vested in the Commonwealth may be disposed of, and instruments, receipts and other documents in relation to those lands may be executed, in accordance with any Ordinance or other law for the time being in force in relation to such disposal or execution.''<lf> <lf>    Sections 2 and 5 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1939 read as follows:-<lf> <lf>    ''2\. In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears-<lf> <lf>    'the Territory' means the Australian Capital Territory and includes the Territory accepted by the Commonwealth in pursuance of the Jervis Bay Territory Acceptance Act 1915, and described in the agreement contained in the Schedule to that Act.<lf> <lf>    ''5\. Where, prior to the commencement of this Act, any Minister, the Federal Capital Commission constituted under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1924-1929, or the Commissioner for Housing appointed under any Ordinance in force in the Territory relating to housing, purported, in pursuance of any provision of any Ordinance or other law for the time being in force in relation to land in the Territory, to lease any such land or to execute any instrument, receipt or other document in relation to such land, the lease shall be deemed to have been duly granted, and every such instrument, receipt or other document shall be deemed to have been duly executed, if granted or executed in accordance with such Ordinance or other law, and shall be deemed to be and at all times to have been as valid and effectual for all purposes as if this Act had been in force at the date of the grant or of the execution.''<lf> 4\.  Section 10 was repealed by sub-section 5 (3) of the Australian Capital Territory and Jervis Bay (Lands Acquisition) Act 1955\. Sub-section 5 (4) of that Act provides as follows:<lf> <lf>    ''(4) An Ordinance made before the commencement of this Act under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910, or under that Act as amended at any time, or regulations made before the commencement of this Act under such an Ordinance, containing provisions for or in relation to the resumption of land held under leases granted by or on behalf of the Crown shall not be deemed to have been, at any time before the commencement of this Act, invalid in whole or in part by reason of the provisions made by any Act for the acquisition of land in the Territory known, at the date of commencement of this Act, as the Australian Capital Territory or in the Jervis Bay Territory.''<lf> 5\.  Sub-section 12 (1) was substituted by section 3 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1970\. Sub-section 3 (2) of that Act provides as follows:<lf> <lf>    ''(2) Notwithstanding the amendment made by the last preceding sub- section, Ordinances in force under the Principal Act immediately before the commencement of this Act continue in force and may be amended or repealed by Ordinances made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910-1970.''<lf> 6\.  Sub-section 12 (2) was amended by the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1939\. Section 6 of that Act provides as follows:<lf> <lf>    ''6\. Where in any Ordinance made under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1910, or under that Act as subsequently amended, it is provided that the Ordinance shall commence on a date to be fixed by notice in the Gazette, that Ordinance shall be deemed to have taken effect from the date so fixed.''<lf> <lf>    Section 3 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1959 amended section 12 by substituting paragraph (c) of sub-section (2) and by omitting sub- section (3) and inserting sub-sections (3) to (10) in its stead. Sub-section (1) of section 5 of that Act provides as follows:-<lf> <lf>    ''5\. (1) Notwithstanding the amendments made by section three of this Act, section twelve of the Principal Act continues to apply to and in relation to all Ordinances made before the date of commencement of this Act.''<lf> 7\.  Sub-sections 12A (2) and 12A (3) were amended by paragraphs 4 (c) and 4 (d) of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1959\. Sub-section 5 (2) of that Act provides as follows:<lf> <lf>    ''(2) The amendments made by paragraphs (c) and (d) of the last preceding section apply to and in relation to all modifications or variations of the plan referred to in section twelve A of the Principal Act made on or after the date of commencement of this Act, but do not apply to or in relation to any such modification or variation made before that date.''<lf> 8.-S. 12A-The plan referred to was published in accordance with section 4 of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1924, which was repealed by the Seat of Government (Administration) Act 1930\. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf>
