**

###  TELEVISION BROADCASTING SERVICES (DIGITAL CONVERSION) ACT 1998 
**
 **Television Broadcasting Services (Digital Conversion) Act 1998**
No. 99, 1998

**Television Broadcasting Services (Digital Conversion) Act 1998**
No. 99, 1998
**

###  TELEVISION BROADCASTING SERVICES (DIGITAL CONVERSION) ACT 1998 -An Act relating to digital television broadcasting, and for other<lf> purposes<lf> </lf></lf>
**
Schedule 1--Amendment of the Broadcasting Services Act 1992
Schedule 2--Amendment of the Radiocommunications Act 1992

Television Broadcasting Services (Digital Conversion) Act 1998
No. 99, 1998
An Act relating to digital television broadcasting, and for other purposes
Assented to 27 July 1998
###  TELEVISION BROADCASTING SERVICES (DIGITAL CONVERSION) ACT 1998 -<lf>  SECT 1  Short title<lf> </lf></lf>
Television Broadcasting Services (Digital Conversion) Act 1998
###  TELEVISION BROADCASTING SERVICES (DIGITAL CONVERSION) ACT 1998 -<lf>  SECT 2  Commencement<lf> </lf></lf>
###  TELEVISION BROADCASTING SERVICES (DIGITAL CONVERSION) ACT 1998 -<lf>  SECT 3  Schedule(s)<lf> </lf></lf>
###  TELEVISION BROADCASTING SERVICES (DIGITAL CONVERSION) ACT 1998 -<lf>  SECT 4  Industry action agenda<lf> </lf></lf>
(a)	the objective that the Australian broadcasting electronics industry be efficient, competitive and responsive to the needs of the Australian community;

 	(b)	the objective of encouraging investment in innovation and value-adding activities in the broadcasting electronics industry;

 	(c)	the objective of providing effective support for Australian exporters of broadcasting electronics technology in gaining access to markets;

 	(d)	the objective of encouraging technology transfers throughout the broadcasting electronics industry;

 	(e)	the objective of establishing links between educational institutions and the broadcasting electronics industry to improve the skills base for the industry;

 	(f)	the objective of promoting strategic commercial relationships between the Australian broadcasting electronics industry and international telecommunications industries.
**

###  TELEVISION BROADCASTING SERVICES (DIGITAL CONVERSION) ACT 1998 -<lf> Schedule 1--Amendment of the Broadcasting Services Act 1992<lf> </lf></lf>
**

Back to Top

1  Section 28
 licences<lf> 		The ABA must not, after 25 June 1998, allocate any new commercial television licences in any licence area before 31 December 2006.

 **2  After section 28**

 Insert: 

  SECT 28A  Section 28 does not apply to the allocation of a licence under section<lf>  SECT 38A<lf> 		The rule in section 28 does not apply to the allocation of a licence under section 38A.<p> **3  Subsection 34(1)**</p><p> Omit "may decide", substitute "may, by written instrument, determine".</p><p> **4  After paragraph 34(1)(f)**</p><p> Insert:</p><p> 

 **5  Subsection 34(2)**</p><p> Omit "the decision", substitute "a determination under subsection (1)".</p><p> **6  At the end of section 34**</p><p> Add:</p><p> 	(3)	The ABA may, by written instrument, determine that a part or parts of the broadcasting services bands spectrum is or are available for allocation for the purposes of the transmission of datacasting services.</p><p> 	(4)	In making a determination under subsection (3), the ABA is to have regard to:</p><p> 

 	(5)	In this section:</p><p> **_datacasting service_** has the same meaning as in Schedule 4.</p><p> **7  Transitional--section 34 of the _Broadcasting Services Act 1992_**</p><p> (1)	This item applies to a decision of the ABA under subsection 34(1) of the _Broadcasting Services Act 1992_ if the decision was in effect immediately before the commencement of this item.</p><p> (2)	The decision has effect as if it had been made in the form of a written determination under subsection 34(1) of that Act immediately after the commencement of this item.</p><p> **8  Subsections 38A(2), (3), (4), (5) and (6)**</p><p> Repeal the subsections, substitute:</p><p> _ABA must grant additional licence_</p><p> 	(2)	As soon as practicable, the ABA must allocate an additional commercial television broadcasting licence to the existing licensee for the licence area.</p><p> **9  Subsection 38A(12)**</p><p> Repeal the subsection.</p><p> **10  Section 73**</p><p> Repeal the section, substitute: </p><p>  SECT 73  Additional licence under section 38A not to result in breach of<lf> ownership limits<lf> 		If an additional licence has been allocated under section 38A to the holder of an existing licence, the existing licence and additional licence are to be treated, for the purposes of this Part, as being only one licence.<p> **11  Paragraph 75(1)(e)**</p><p> Omit "71; and", substitute "71.".</p><p> **12  Paragraph 75(1)(f)**</p><p> Repeal the paragraph.</p><p> **13  Section 92F**</p><p> Omit "decision", substitute "determination".</p><p> **14  Section 204 (table row relating to refusal to grant an additional period)**</p><p> Repeal the row.</p><p> **15  Section 215**</p><p> Repeal the section.</p><p> **16  After section 216**</p><p> Insert: </p><p>  SECT 216A  Schedule 4 (digital television broadcasting)<lf> 		Schedule 4 has effect.<p> **17  At the end of subclause 7(1) of Schedule 2**</p><p> Add:</p><p> 

<center>Back to Top</center>

 **18  At the end of clause 7 of Schedule 2**</p><p> Add:</p><p> 	(3)	An expression used in paragraph (1)(m) or (p) and in Schedule 4 has the same meaning in that paragraph as it has in that Schedule.</p><p> 	(4)	Subclause 6(8) of Schedule 4 applies to paragraph (1)(m) of this clause in a corresponding way to the way in which it applies to paragraph 6(3)(c) of Schedule 4 and subclause 6(7) of Schedule 4.</p><p> **19  At the end of the Act**</p><p> Add: </p><p> Schedule 4--Digital television broadcasting<lf> 

 Part 1--Introduction<lf>    <p>  SECT 1  Simplified outline<lf> 		The following is a simplified outline of this Schedule: <p> *	The ABA is to formulate schemes for the conversion, over time, of the transmission of television broadcasting services from analog mode to digital mode.</p><p> *	There is to be a simulcast period throughout which broadcasters are to transmit their television programs in both analog mode and digital mode.</p><p> *	At the end of the simulcast period, analog transmissions are to cease.</p><p> *	Broadcasters must meet standards relating to High Definition Television (HDTV) format transmission of television programs in digital mode.</p><p> *	Broadcasters must meet standards relating to captioning of television programs for the deaf and hearing impaired.</p><p> *	Broadcasters will be allowed to use spare transmission capacity on digital transmission channels to provide datacasting services.</p><p> *	Owners and operators of broadcasting transmission towers must give digital broadcasters and datacasters access to the towers for the purposes of installing or maintaining digital transmitters.</p><p> *	There are to be reviews before 1 January 2000 and 31 December 2005 of certain elements of the digital television regulatory regime. </p><p>  SECT 2  Definitions<lf> 		In this Schedule, unless the contrary intention appears:<p> **_AAT_** means the Administrative Appeals Tribunal.</p><p> **_ACA_** means the Australian Communications Authority.</p><p> **_broadcasting transmission tower_** means:</p><p> 

</p> used to supply a broadcasting service by means of radiocommunications using the broadcasting services bands.</lf></p><p> **_commercial television broadcasting service_** means a commercial broadcasting service that provides television programs.</p><p> **_commercial television conversion scheme_** means a scheme under clause 6.</p><p> **_coverage area_** means:</p><p> 

 **_datacasting service_** means a service (other than a broadcasting service) that delivers information (whether in the form of data, text, speech, images or in any other form) to persons having equipment appropriate for receiving that information, where the delivery of the service uses the broadcasting services bands.</p><p> **_licence area_** means a licence area for a commercial television broadcasting licence.</p><p> **_metropolitan coverage area_** means an area that corresponds to a metropolitan licence area.</p><p> **_metropolitan licence area_** means a licence area in which is situated the General Post Office of the capital city of:</p><p> 

 **_national broadcasting service_** does not include a broadcasting service provided under the _Parliamentary Proceedings Broadcasting Act 1946_.</p><p> **_national television broadcasting service_** means a national broadcasting service that provides television programs.</p><p> **_national television conversion scheme_** means a scheme under clause 19.</p><p> **_radiocommunication_** has the same meaning as in the _Radiocommunications Act 1992_.</p><p> **_regional coverage area_** means an area that corresponds to a regional licence area.</p><p> **_regional licence area_** means a licence area that is not a metropolitan licence area. </p><p> **_remote coverage area_** means an area that corresponds to a remote licence area.</p><p> **_remote licence area_** has the meaning given by clause 5.</p><p> **_simulcast period_**:</p><p> 

 **_transmitter licence_** has the same meaning as in the _Radiocommunications Act 1992_. </p><p>  SECT 3  Analog mode<lf> 		For the purposes of this Schedule, a program or service is broadcast or transmitted in **_analog mode_** if the program or service is broadcast or transmitted using an analog modulation technique. <p>  99, 1998 -<lf>  SECT 4  Digital mode<lf> 		For the purposes of this Schedule, a program or service is broadcast or transmitted in **_digital mode_** if the program or service is broadcast or transmitted using a digital modulation technique. <p>  SECT 5  Remote licence area<lf> 	(1)	The ABA may, by writing, determine that a specified licence area is a **_remote licence area_** for the purposes of this Schedule.<p> 	(2)	A determination under this clause has effect accordingly.</p><p> 	(3)	A determination under this clause is a disallowable instrument for the purposes of section 46A of the _Acts Interpretation Act 1901_. </p><p> Part 2--Commercial television<lf>    
<center>Back to Top</center>
 <p>  SECT 6  Commercial television conversion scheme<lf> 	(1)	As soon as practicable after the commencement of this clause, the ABA must, by writing, formulate a scheme (the **_commercial television conversion scheme_**) for the conversion, over time, of the transmission of commercial television broadcasting services from analog mode to digital mode.<p> 	(2)	The commercial television conversion scheme is to be divided into the following Parts:</p><p> 

 _Policy objectives_</p><p> 	(3)	Part A of the commercial television conversion scheme must be directed towards ensuring the achievement of the following policy objectives:</p><p> 

</p> 	(4)	Subclause (3) does not prevent the commercial television conversion scheme from allowing the holder of a commercial television broadcasting licence for a regional licence area to transmit the commercial television broadcasting service concerned in digital mode in that area during the whole or a part of the period:</lf></p><p> 

 so long as that transmission complies with such requirements as are ascertained in accordance with the scheme. </p><p> 	(5)	Subclause (3) does not prevent Part A of the commercial television conversion scheme from allowing the holder of a commercial television broadcasting licence for a licence area to transmit, on a test basis, the commercial television broadcasting service concerned in digital mode in that area before the start of the simulcast period for that area, so long as that transmission:</p><p> 

 	(6)	The objective mentioned in paragraph (3)(g) (which deals with co-location of transmitters) does not prevent Part A of the commercial television conversion scheme from making provision for the location of digital transmitters otherwise than as mentioned in that paragraph, where the ABA is satisfied that an alternative location is appropriate having regard to:</p><p> 

 _Remote licence areas--simulcast period_</p><p> 	(7)	Part B of the commercial television conversion scheme may make provision for a transitional period for a specified remote licence area, that is to be known as the **_simulcast period_**, throughout which the holder of a commercial television broadcasting licence for that area is required to transmit simultaneously the commercial television broadcasting service concerned in both analog mode and digital mode in that area.</p><p> _Simulcasting_</p><p> 	(8)	In determining, for the purposes of paragraph (3)(c) and subclause (7), whether the holder of a commercial television broadcasting licence transmits simultaneously the commercial television broadcasting service concerned in both analog mode and digital mode:</p><p> 

 	(9)	The ABA may, by writing, determine that paragraph (8)(a) applies to specified advertising or sponsorship matter transmitted by a specified commercial television broadcasting licensee during a specified period. The specified advertising or sponsorship matter may consist of all advertising or sponsorship matter transmitted by the licensee concerned. The specified period may consist of the simulcast period for the licence area concerned.</p><p> 

 	(10)	The ABA may, by writing, determine that paragraph (8)(b) applies to specified television programs transmitted by a specified commercial television broadcasting licensee during a specified period.</p><p> 

 	(11)	The ABA must not make a determination under subclause (9) or (10) unless the ABA is satisfied that, if it were assumed that the determination were made, the version of the commercial television broadcasting service transmitted in digital mode will be substantially the same as the version of the service transmitted in analog mode.</p><p> 	(12)	A determination under subclause (9) or (10) is a disallowable instrument for the purposes of section 46A of the _Acts Interpretation Act 1901_.</p><p> 	(13)	A reference in this clause to **_advertising or sponsorship matter_** is a reference to advertising or sponsorship matter (whether or 
<center>Back to Top</center>
 not of a commercial kind). </p><p>  SECT 7  Scheme may confer administrative powers on the ABA<lf> 		The commercial television conversion scheme may make provision with respect to a matter by conferring on the ABA a power to make a decision of an administrative character. <p>  SECT 8  Transmitter licences<lf> _Grant of additional spectrum for digital transmission_<p> 	(1)	The commercial television conversion scheme must make provision for requiring the ACA to issue transmitter licences authorising transmissions of commercial television broadcasting services in digital mode.</p><p> _Return of spectrum if digital transmission does not begin_</p><p> 	(2)	Part A of the commercial television conversion scheme must make provision for requiring the holder of a commercial television broadcasting licence to surrender one or more transmitter licences authorising digital transmission if:</p><p> 

 _Return of spectrum if digital transmission does not continue throughout the simulcast period_</p><p> 	(3)	Part A of the commercial television conversion scheme must make provision for requiring the holder of a commercial television broadcasting licence to surrender one or more transmitter licences authorising digital transmission if:</p><p> 

 _Return of spectrum at end of simulcast period_</p><p> 	(4)	Part A of the commercial television conversion scheme must make provision for requiring the holder of a commercial television broadcasting licence to whom subparagraph 6(3)(h)(i) of this Schedule applies to surrender the transmitter licence or licences as mentioned in that subparagraph.</p><p> 	(5)	Part A of the commercial television conversion scheme must make provision for requiring the holder of a commercial television broadcasting licence to whom subparagraph 6(3)(h)(ii) of this Schedule applies to surrender the transmitter licence or licences as mentioned in that subparagraph.</p><p> 	(6)	Part A of the commercial television conversion scheme must provide that, if the holder of a commercial television broadcasting licence for a licence area fails to notify the ABA, at least 6 months before the end of the simulcast period for that area, whether the holder intends to pursue the outcome referred to in subparagraph 6(3)(h)(i) or (ii) of this Schedule, the holder is taken to have pursued the outcome referred to in subparagraph 6(3)(h)(i) of this Schedule.</p><p> _Return of spectrum if HDTV standards contravened_</p><p> 	(7)	Part A of the commercial television conversion scheme must make provision for requiring the holder of a commercial television broadcasting licence for a licence area to surrender the transmitter licence or licences that authorised the transmission of the commercial television broadcasting service concerned in digital mode in that area if:</p><p> 

 	(8)	Subclause (7) does not prevent the commercial television conversion scheme from making provision for requiring the ACA to issue a transmitter licence to replace the licence that was surrendered as mentioned in that subclause. However, the amount of transmission capacity covered by the replacement licence must be less than the amount of transmission capacity covered by the surrendered licence.</p><p> _Variation of analog transmitter licence to allow digital transmission_</p><p> 	(9)	Part A of the commercial television conversion scheme must make provision 
<center>Back to Top</center>
 for requiring that, if subparagraph 6(3)(h)(ii) of this Schedule applies, the ACA must vary the conditions of the transmitter licence that authorised analog transmission of the commercial television broadcasting service concerned during the simulcast period so as to ensure that the licence authorises digital transmission of that service in the area concerned after the end of the simulcast period. </p><p> _Remote licence areas_</p><p> 	(10)	Part B of the commercial television conversion scheme may make provision for requiring the holder of a commercial television broadcasting licence to surrender one or more transmitter licences authorising analog transmission or authorising digital transmission if the holder does not comply with a specified requirement of that Part of the scheme.</p><p> 	(11)	Part B of the commercial television conversion scheme may make provision for requiring the ACA to vary the conditions of a transmitter licence that authorised analog transmission of a commercial television broadcasting service in a remote licence area so as to ensure that the licence authorises digital transmission of that service in that area. </p><p>  SECT 9  Submission of implementation plans to the ABA<lf> 	(1)	The commercial television conversion scheme must make provision for requiring holders of commercial television broadcasting licences to prepare, and submit to the ABA, one or more implementation plans relating to digital transmission, where the implementation plans are in accordance with the scheme.<p> 	(2)	The commercial television conversion scheme may provide for variation of implementation plans submitted to the ABA by holders of commercial television broadcasting licences. </p><p>  SECT 10  Amendment of certain plans and guidelines<lf> 	(1)	The commercial television conversion scheme may amend the frequency allotment plan or a licence area plan.<p> 	(2)	The commercial television conversion scheme may amend technical planning guidelines in force under section 33.</p><p> 	(3)	Subclauses (1) and (2) do not limit the ABA's powers under sections 25, 26 and 33\. </p><p>  SECT 11  Reviews and reports<lf> 		The commercial television conversion scheme may provide for the ABA to conduct reviews, and report to the Minister, on specified matters. <p>  SECT 12  Ancillary or incidental provisions<lf> 		The commercial television conversion scheme may contain such ancillary or incidental provisions as the ABA considers appropriate. <p>  SECT 13  ABA to have regard to datacasting allocation power<lf> 	(1)	In formulating or varying the commercial television conversion scheme, the ABA must have regard to its power under subsection 34(3) (which deals with datacasting allocation).<p> 	(2)	Subclause (1) does not limit the matters to which the ABA may have regard. </p><p>  SECT 14  ABA to have regard to special circumstances that apply in remote licence<lf> areas<lf> 	(1)	In formulating or varying Part B of the commercial television conversion scheme, the ABA must have regard to the special circumstances that apply to the transmission of commercial television broadcasting services in remote licence areas.<p> 	(2)	Subclause (1) does not limit the matters to which the ABA may have regard. </p><p>  SECT 15  Minister may give directions to the ABA<lf> 	(1)	In formulating or varying the commercial television conversion scheme, the ABA must comply with any written directions given to it by the Minister under this subclause.<p> 	(2)	A direction under subclause (1) may be of a general or specific nature.</p><p> 	(3)	The Minister must arrange for a copy of a direction under subclause (1) to be published in the _Gazette_ within 14 days after the direction is given. </p><p>  SECT 16  Variation of scheme<lf> 	(1)	The commercial television conversion scheme may be varied, but not revoked, in accordance with subsection 33(3) of the _Acts Interpretation Act 1901_.<p> 	(2)	Subclause (1) does not limit the application of subsection 33(3) of the _Acts Interpretation Act 1901_ to other instruments under this Act. </p><p>  SECT 17  Scheme to be a disallowable instrument<lf> <lf> 		An instrument under subclause 6(1) is a disallowable instrument for the purposes of section 46A of the _Acts Interpretation Act 1901_. <p>  SECT 18  Processes to be public<lf> 
<center>Back to Top</center>
 		In formulating or varying the commercial television conversion scheme, the ABA must make provision for:<p> 

 Part 3--ABC/SBS television<lf>    <p>  SECT 19  National television conversion scheme<lf> 	(1)	As soon as practicable after the commencement of this clause, the ABA must, by writing, formulate a scheme (the **_national television conversion scheme_**) for the conversion, over time, of the transmission of national television broadcasting services from analog mode to digital mode.<p> 

 	(2)	The national television conversion scheme is to be divided into the following Parts:</p><p> 

 _Policy objectives_</p><p> 	(3)	Part A of the national television conversion scheme must be directed towards ensuring the achievement of the following policy objectives:</p><p> 

</p> 

 	(3A)	The ABA must consult with national broadcasters about the implementation of the scheme.</lf></p><p> 	(4)	Subclause (3) does not prevent the national television conversion scheme from allowing a national broadcaster to transmit the national television broadcasting service concerned in digital mode in a regional coverage area during the whole or a part of the period:</p><p> 

 so long as that transmission complies with such requirements as are ascertained in accordance with the scheme. </p><p> 	(5)	Subclause (3) does not prevent Part A of the national television conversion scheme from allowing a national broadcaster to transmit, on a test basis, the national television broadcasting service concerned in digital mode in a coverage area before the start of the simulcast period for that area, so long as that transmission:</p><p> 

 	(6)	The objective mentioned in paragraph (3)(g) (which deals with co-location of transmitters) does not prevent Part A of the national television conversion scheme from making provision for the location of digital transmitters otherwise than as mentioned in that paragraph, where the ABA is satisfied that an alternative location is appropriate having regard to:</p><p> 

 _Remote coverage areas--simulcast period_</p><p> 	(7)	Part B of the national television conversion scheme may make provision for a transitional period for a specified remote coverage area, that is to be known as the **_simulcast period_**, throughout which a national broadcaster is required to transmit simultaneously the national television broadcasting service concerned in both analog mode and digital mode in that area.</p><p> _Simulcasting_</p><p> 	(8)	In determining, for the purposes of paragraph (3)(c) and subclause (7), whether a national broadcaster transmits simultaneously the national television broadcasting service concerned in both analog mode and digital mode:</p><p> 

 	(9)	The ABA may, by writing, determine that paragraph (8)(a) applies to specified advertising or sponsorship matter transmitted by the Special Broadcasting Service Corporation during a specified period. The specified advertising or sponsorship matter may consist of all advertising or sponsorship matter transmitted by the Special Broadcasting Service Corporation. The specified period may consist of the simulcast period for the coverage area concerned.</p><p> 

 	(10)	The ABA may, by writing, determine that paragraph (8)(b) applies to specified television programs transmitted by a specified national broadcaster during a specified period.</p><p> 

 	(11)	The ABA must not make a determination under subclause (9) or (10) unless the ABA is satisfied that, if it were assumed that the determination were made, the version of the national television broadcasting service transmitted in digital mode will be substantially the same as the version of the service transmitted in analog mode.</p><p> 	(12)	A determination under subclause (9) or (10) is a disallowable instrument for the purposes of section 46A of the _Acts Interpretation Act 1901_.</p><p> 	(13)	A reference in this clause to **_advertising or sponsorship matter_** is a reference to advertising or sponsorship matter (whether or not of a commercial kind). </p><p>  SECT 20  National broadcasters to give implementation plans to the<lf> Minister<lf> 	(1)	As soon as practicable after the formulation of the national television conversion scheme, a national broadcaster must give the Minister one or more implementation plans relating to the conversion, over time, of the transmission of the national television broadcasting service concerned from analog mode to digital mode.<p> 	(2)	In preparing an implementation plan, a national broadcaster must have regard to the following matters:</p><p> 

 	(3)	If an implementation plan is given to the Minister under this clause, the Minister must:</p><p> 

 	(4)	In deciding whether to approve an implementation plan under this clause, the Minister must have regard to the following matters:</p><p> 

 	(5)	Before deciding whether to approve an implementation plan under this clause, the Minister may direct the ABA to give the Minister a report about the matter.</p><p> 	(6)	If the Minister approves an implementation plan under this clause, the implementation plan comes into force on approval.</p><p> 	(7)	If the Minister refuses to approve an implementation plan under this clause, the Minister may, by written notice given to the national broadcaster concerned:</p><p> 

 The notice must also set out the reasons for the refusal.</p><p> 
<center>Back to Top</center>
 	(8)	The Minister must cause copies of a notice under subclause (7) to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 7 sitting days of that House after the giving of the notice.</p><p> 	(9)	A national broadcaster may give the Minister a variation of an approved implementation plan that relates to the national broadcaster. Subclauses (2) to (8) (inclusive) apply to the variation of an implementation plan in a corresponding way to the way in which they apply to an implementation plan. </p><p>  SECT 21  Compliance with implementation plans<lf> 		If an implementation plan given by a national broadcaster under clause 20 is in force, the national broadcaster must comply with the implementation plan. <p>  SECT 22  Scheme may confer administrative powers on the ABA<lf> 		The national television conversion scheme may make provision with respect to a matter by conferring on the ABA a power to make a decision of an administrative character. <p>  SECT 23  Transmitter licences<lf> _Grant of additional spectrum for digital transmission_<p> 	(1)	The national television conversion scheme must make provision for requiring the ACA to issue transmitter licences authorising transmissions of national television broadcasting services in digital mode.</p><p> _Return of spectrum if digital transmission does not begin_</p><p> 	(2)	Part A of the national television conversion scheme must make provision for requiring a national broadcaster to surrender one or more transmitter licences authorising digital transmission if:</p><p> 

 _Return of spectrum if digital transmission does not continue throughout the simulcast period_</p><p> 	(3)	Part A of the national television conversion scheme must make provision for requiring a national broadcaster to surrender one or more transmitter licences authorising digital transmission if:</p><p> 

 _Return of spectrum at end of simulcast period_</p><p> 	(4)	Part A of the national television conversion scheme must make provision for requiring a national broadcaster to whom subparagraph 19(3)(h)(i) of this Schedule applies to surrender the transmitter licence or licences as mentioned in that subparagraph.</p><p> 	(5)	Part A of the national television conversion scheme must make provision for requiring a national broadcaster to whom subparagraph 19(3)(h)(ii) of this Schedule applies to surrender the transmitter licence or licences as mentioned in that subparagraph.</p><p> 	(6)	Part A of the national television conversion scheme must provide that, if a national broadcaster fails to notify the ABA, at least 6 months before the end of the simulcast period for a coverage area, whether the broadcaster intends to pursue the outcome referred to in subparagraph 19(3)(h)(i) or (ii) of this Schedule, the broadcaster is taken to have pursued the outcome referred to in subparagraph 19(3)(h)(i) of this Schedule.</p><p> _Return of spectrum if HDTV standards contravened_</p><p> 	(7)	Part A of the national television conversion scheme must make provision for requiring a national broadcaster to surrender the transmitter licence or licences that authorised the transmission of the national television broadcasting service concerned in digital mode in the coverage area concerned if:</p><p> 

<center>Back to Top</center>
 	(8)	Subclause (7) does not prevent the national television conversion scheme from making provision for requiring the ACA to issue a transmitter licence to replace the licence that was surrendered as mentioned in that subclause. However, the amount of transmission capacity covered by the replacement licence must be less than the amount of transmission capacity covered by the surrendered licence.</p><p> _Variation of analog transmitter licence to allow digital transmission_</p><p> 	(9)	Part A of the national television conversion scheme must make provision for requiring that, if subparagraph 19(3)(h)(ii) of this Schedule applies, the ACA must vary the conditions of the transmitter licence that authorised analog transmission of the national broadcasting service concerned during the simulcast period so as to ensure that the licence authorises digital transmission of that service in the area concerned after the end of the simulcast period. </p><p> _Remote coverage areas_</p><p> 	(10)	Part B of the national television conversion scheme may make provision for requiring a national broadcaster to surrender one or more transmitter licences authorising analog transmission or authorising digital transmission if the national broadcaster does not comply with a specified requirement of that Part of the scheme.</p><p> 	(11)	Part B of the national television conversion scheme may make provision for requiring the ACA to vary the conditions of a transmitter licence that authorised analog transmission of a national television broadcasting service in a remote coverage area so as to ensure that the licence authorises digital transmission of that service in that area. </p><p>  SECT 24  Amendment of certain plans and guidelines<lf> 	(1)	The national television conversion scheme may amend the frequency allotment plan or a licence area plan.<p> 	(2)	The national television conversion scheme may amend technical planning guidelines in force under section 33.</p><p> 	(3)	Subclauses (1) and (2) do not limit the ABA's powers under sections 25, 26 and 33\. </p><p>  SECT 25  Reviews and reports<lf> 		The national television conversion scheme may provide for the ABA to conduct reviews, and report to the Minister, on specified matters. <p>  SECT 26  Ancillary or incidental provisions<lf> 		The national television conversion scheme may contain such ancillary or incidental provisions as the ABA considers appropriate. <p>  SECT 27  ABA to have regard to datacasting allocation power<lf> 	(1)	In formulating or varying the national television conversion scheme, the ABA must have regard to its power under subsection 34(3) (which deals with datacasting allocation).<p> 	(2)	Subclause (1) does not limit the matters to which the ABA may have regard. </p><p>  SECT 28  ABA to have regard to special circumstances that apply in remote<lf> coverage areas<lf> 	(1)	In formulating or varying Part B of the national television conversion scheme, the ABA must have regard to the special circumstances that apply to the transmission of national television broadcasting services in remote coverage areas.<p> 	(2)	Subclause (1) does not limit the matters to which the ABA may have regard. </p><p>  SECT 29  Minister may give directions to the ABA<lf> 	(1)	In formulating or varying the national television conversion scheme, the ABA must comply with any written directions given to it by the Minister under this subclause.<p> 	(2)	A direction under subclause (1) may be of a general or specific nature.</p><p> 	(3)	The Minister must arrange for a copy of a direction under subclause (1) to be published in the _Gazette_ within 14 days after the direction is given. </p><p>  SECT 30  Variation of scheme<lf> 	(1)	The national television conversion scheme may be varied, but not revoked, in accordance with subsection 33(3) of the _Acts Interpretation Act 1901_.<p> 	(2)	Subclause (1) does not limit the application of subsection 33(3) of the _Acts Interpretation Act 1901_ to other instruments under this Act. </p><p>  SECT 31  Scheme to be a disallowable instrument<lf> 		An instrument under subclause 19(1) is a disallowable instrument for the purposes of section 46A of the _Acts Interpretation Act 1901_. <p>  SECT 32  Scheme does not take effect until approved by the Minister<lf> 		The national television conversion scheme, or a variation of the scheme, does not take effect unless and until it is approved, in writing, by the Minister. <p> 
<center>Back to Top</center>
  SECT 33  Processes to be public<lf> 		In formulating or varying the national television conversion scheme, the ABA must make provision for:<p> 

  SECT 34  Compliance with scheme<lf> 		A national broadcaster must comply with the national television conversion scheme. <p>  SECT 35  Simulcasting requirements<lf> <lf> 	(1)	If there is a simulcast period for a coverage area, a national broadcaster must not broadcast a television program in digital mode in that area during the simulcast period for that area unless the program is broadcast simultaneously by the national broadcaster in analog mode in that area.<p> 	(2)	Subclause 19(8) applies to this clause in a corresponding way to the way in which it applies to paragraph 19(3)(c) of this Schedule and subclause 19(7) of this Schedule. </p><p>  SECT 36  Digital transmitter not to be used to provide a subscription television<lf> broadcasting service etc.<lf> 	(1)	If a national broadcaster holds a transmitter licence that authorises the operation of a transmitter for transmitting the national broadcasting service concerned in digital mode, the national broadcaster must not operate, or permit the operation of, that transmitter to transmit in digital mode:<p> 

 	(2)	Subclause (1) does not prevent a national broadcaster from doing anything that the broadcaster is authorised to do under paragraph 35(1)(c) of this Schedule. </p><p>  SECT 36A  Modifications if the National Transmission Network Sale Bill is not<lf> enacted<lf> 	(1)	This clause applies if the National Transmission Network Sale Bill 1997 has not been enacted.<p> 	(2)	For the purposes of dealing with the consequences of that non-enactment, the regulations may provide that this Schedule applies in relation to a national broadcaster subject to such modifications as are specified in the regulations.</p><p> 	(3)	In this clause:</p><p> **_modifications_** includes additions, omissions and substitutions. </p><p> Part 4--Standards<lf>    <p>  SECT 37  Digital television format standards<lf> _HDTV standards--non-remote areas_<p> 	(1)	The regulations must determine standards that require:</p><p> 

 to meet specified goals or targets in relation to the extent to which television programs, or specified kinds of television programs, are transmitted in accordance with one or more specified High Definition Television (HDTV) formats relating to the transmission of television programs in digital mode.</p><p> 	(2)	Subclause (1) does not apply in relation to the transmission of:</p><p> 

 	(3)	Subclause (1) does not apply in relation to the transmission of a commercial television broadcasting service in a licence area unless:</p><p> 

 	(4)	Subclause (1) does not apply in relation to the transmission of a national television broadcasting service in a coverage area unless:</p><p> 

</p> _HDTV standards--remote areas_</lf></p><p> 	(5)	The regulations may determine standards that require:</p><p> 

 to meet specified goals or targets in relation to the extent to which television programs, or specified kinds of television programs, are transmitted in accordance with one or more specified High Definition Television (HDTV) formats relating to the transmission of television programs in digital mode.</p><p> 	(6)	Subclause (5) does not apply in relation to the transmission of a commercial television broadcasting service in a licence area unless:</p><p> 

 	(7)	Subclause (5) does not apply in relation to the transmission of a national television broadcasting service in a coverage area unless:</p><p> 

 _Non-HDTV standards_</p><p> 	(8)	The regulations may determine other standards that are to be observed by commercial television broadcasting licensees and national broadcasters in relation to the format in which television programs are to be transmitted in digital mode.</p><p> 	(9)	Subclause (8) does not apply in relation to the transmission of a commercial television broadcasting service in a licence area unless that service is transmitted in digital mode in that area.</p><p> 	(10)	Subclause (8) does not apply in relation to the transmission of a national television broadcasting service in a coverage area unless that service is transmitted in digital mode in that area.</p><p> _Compliance by national broadcasters_</p><p> 	(11)	A national broadcaster must comply with a standard under subclause (1) or (8).</p><p> 

  SECT 38  Captioning standards<lf> 	(1)	The regulations must determine standards that are to be observed by:<p> 

 in relation to the captioning of television programs for the deaf and hearing impaired.</p><p> 	(2)	Standards under subclause (1) must require licensees and national broadcasters to meet specified goals or targets in relation to the extent to which television programs, or specified kinds of television programs, are captioned for the deaf and hearing impaired.</p><p> 	(3)	Subclause (2) does not limit subclause (1).</p><p> 	(4)	Standards under subclause (1) must be directed towards ensuring the achievement of the following objectives:</p><p> 

 	(5)	For the purposes of subclause (4), **_prime viewing hours_** are the hours:</p><p> 

 	(6)	Standards under subclause (1) do not apply to a particular licensee or national broadcaster before the first occasion on or after 1 January 2001 on which the licensee or broadcaster broadcasts television programs in digital mode.</p><p> 	(7)	A national broadcaster must comply with a standard under subclause (1). </p><p> 

 	(8)	In this clause:</p><p> 
<center>Back to Top</center>
 **_program_** does not include advertising or sponsorship matter (whether or not of a commercial kind). </p><p>  SECT 39  Technical standards for digital transmission of television broadcasting<lf> services<lf> 	(1)	The regulations may determine technical standards that:<p> 

 	(2)	Standards under subclause (1), to the extent that they deal with conditional access systems, must be directed towards ensuring the achievement of the policy objective that, as far as is practicable, those systems should be open to all providers of television broadcasting services transmitted in digital mode using the broadcasting services bands.</p><p> 	(3)	The commercial television conversion scheme must be consistent with any standards determined under subclause (1).</p><p> 	(4)	The national television conversion scheme must be consistent with any standards determined under subclause (1). </p><p> 	(5)	In this clause:</p><p> **_conditional access system_** means a conditional access system that:</p><p> 

  SECT 40  Datacasting standards<lf> 	(1)	The regulations may determine standards that are to be observed by:<p> 

 in relation to the provision, by the holders, broadcasters or other persons, of datacasting services transmitted in digital mode.</p><p> 	(2)	Standards under subclause (1), to the extent that they deal with conditional access systems, must be directed towards ensuring the achievement of the policy objective that, as far as is practicable, those systems should be open to all providers of datacasting services transmitted in digital mode.</p><p> 	(3)	If a transmitter licence authorises the transmission of datacasting services in digital mode, then, in addition to any conditions to which that licence is subject under the _Radiocommunications Act 1992_, the licence is taken to be subject to a condition that the holder of the transmitter licence, and any person authorised by the holder of the transmitter licence, must comply with a standard under subclause (1). </p><p> 	(4)	In this clause:</p><p> **_conditional access system_** means a conditional access system that:</p><p> 

  SECT 41  Standards may incorporate other instruments<lf> 		Section 589 of the _Telecommunications Act 1997_ applies to regulations made for the purposes of this Part in a corresponding way to the way in which it applies to an instrument under that Act. <p>  SECT 41A  This Part not to have effect until a day to be fixed by<lf> Proclamation<lf> 	(1)	This Part has no effect until a day to be fixed by Proclamation.<p> 	(2)	A Proclamation under subclause (1) must not be made except in accordance with a resolution passed by each House of the Parliament in pursuance of a motion of which notice has been given not less than 15 sitting days of that House before the motion is moved.</p><p> 	(3)	A Proclamation under subclause (1) must not be made before the last occasion on which a copy of a report of a review under subclause 59(1) is laid before a House of the Parliament in accordance with subclause 59(4). </p><p> Part 5--Transmitter access regime<lf> <lf>    <p>  SECT 42  Simplified outline<lf> 
<center>Back to Top</center>
 		The following is a simplified outline of this Part:<p> *	The owner or operator of a broadcasting transmission tower must provide:</p><p> 	(a)	the holder of a commercial television broadcasting licence; or</p><p> 	(b)	a national broadcaster;</p><p> 	with access to the tower, and the site of the tower, for the purpose of installing or maintaining a transmitter for use in transmitting television broadcasting services in digital mode.</p><p> *	The owner or operator of a broadcasting transmission tower must provide a datacaster with access to the tower, and the site of the tower, for the purpose of installing or maintaining a transmitter for use in transmitting datacasting services in digital mode. </p><p>  SECT 43  Definitions<lf> 		In this Part:<p> **_ACCC_** means the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission.</p><p> **_business day_** means a day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a public holiday in the place concerned.</p><p> **_datacaster_** means a person who provides a datacasting service.</p><p> **_facility_** includes apparatus, equipment, a structure or a line.</p><p> **_site_** means:</p><p> 

 **_television broadcasting service_** means a commercial television broadcasting service or a national broadcasting service. </p><p>  SECT 44  Extended meaning of access<lf> 	(1)	For the purposes of this Part, **_giving access_** to a tower includes replacing the tower with another tower located on the same site and giving access to the replacement tower.<p> 	(2)	For the purposes of this Part, **_giving access_** to a site on which is situated a tower includes replacing the tower with another tower located on the site. </p><p>  SECT 45  Access to broadcasting transmission towers<lf> _Television broadcasting services in digital mode_<p> 	(1)	The owner or operator of a broadcasting transmission tower must, if requested to do so by the holder of a commercial television broadcasting licence (the **_access seeker_**), or a national broadcaster (also the **_access seeker_**), give the access seeker access to the tower.</p><p> 	(2)	The owner or operator of the broadcasting transmission tower is not required to comply with subclause (1) unless:</p><p> 

 _Datacasting services in digital mode_</p><p> 	(3)	The owner or operator of a broadcasting transmission tower must, if requested to do so by a datacaster (the **_access seeker_**), give the access seeker access to the tower.</p><p> 	(4)	The owner or operator of the broadcasting transmission tower is not required to comply with subclause (3) unless:</p><p> 

 _Compliance not technically feasible_</p><p> 	(5)	The owner or operator of a broadcasting transmission tower is not required to comply with subclause (1) or (3) if there is in force a written certificate issued by the ABA stating that, in the ABA's opinion, compliance with subclause (1) or (3), as the case may be, in relation to that tower is not technically feasible.</p><p> 	(6)	In determining whether compliance with subclause (1) or (3) in relation to a tower is technically feasible, the ABA must have regard to:</p><p> 

 _Issue of certificate_</p><p> 
<center>Back to Top</center>
 	(7)	If the ABA receives a request to make a decision about the issue of a certificate under subclause (5), the ABA must use its best endeavours to make that decision within 10 business days after the request was made. </p><p>  SECT 46  Access to sites of broadcasting transmission towers<lf> _Television broadcasting services in digital mode_<p> 	(1)	The owner or operator of a broadcasting transmission tower must, if requested to do so by the holder of a commercial television broadcasting licence (the **_access seeker_**), or a national broadcaster (also the **_access seeker_**), give the access seeker access to a site if:</p><p> 

 	(2)	The owner or operator of the broadcasting transmission tower is not required to comply with subclause (1) unless:</p><p> 

 _Datacasting services in digital mode_</p><p> 	(3)	The owner or operator of a broadcasting transmission tower must, if requested to do so by a datacaster (the **_access seeker_**), give the access seeker access to a site if the tower is situated on the site.</p><p> 	(4)	The owner or operator of the broadcasting transmission tower is not required to comply with subclause (3) unless:</p><p> 

 _Compliance not technically feasible_</p><p> 	(5)	The owner or operator of a broadcasting transmission tower is not required to comply with subclause (1) or (3) if there is in force a written certificate issued by the ABA stating that, in the ABA's opinion, compliance with subclause (1) or (3), as the case may be, in relation to that tower is not technically feasible.</p><p> 	(6)	In determining whether compliance with subclause (1) or (3) in relation to a site is technically feasible, the ABA must have regard to:</p><p> 

 _Issue of certificate_</p><p> 	(7)	If the ABA receives a request to make a decision about the issue of a certificate under subclause (5), the ABA must use its best endeavours to make that decision within 10 business days after the request was made. </p><p>  SECT 47  Terms and conditions of access<lf> _Access to towers_<p> 	(1)	The owner or operator of a broadcasting transmission tower must comply with subclause 45(1) or (3) on such terms and conditions as are:</p><p> 

 If the parties fail to agree on the appointment of an arbitrator, the ACCC is to be the arbitrator.</p><p> _Access to sites_</p><p> 	(2)	The owner or operator of a broadcasting transmission tower must comply with subclause 46(1) or (3) on such terms and conditions as are:</p><p> 

<center>Back to Top</center>
 If the parties fail to agree on the appointment of an arbitrator, the ACCC is to be the arbitrator.</p><p> _Conduct of arbitration_</p><p> 	(3)	The regulations may make provision for and in relation to the conduct of an arbitration under this clause.</p><p> 	(4)	The regulations may provide that, for the purposes of a particular arbitration conducted by the ACCC under this clause, the ACCC may be constituted by a single member, or a specified number of members, of the ACCC. For each such arbitration, that member or those members are to be nominated in writing by the Chair of the ACCC.</p><p> 	(5)	Subclause (4) does not, by implication, limit subclause (3). </p><p>  SECT 48  Code relating to access<lf> 	(1)	The ACCC may, by written instrument, make a Code setting out conditions that are to be complied with in relation to the provision of access under this Part.<p> 	(2)	Before making an instrument under subclause (1), the ACCC must consult:</p><p> 

 	(3)	An access seeker must comply with the Code.</p><p> 	(4)	The owner or operator of a broadcasting transmission tower must comply with the Code.</p><p> 	(5)	An instrument under subclause (1) is a disallowable instrument for the purposes of section 46A of the _Acts Interpretation Act 1901_. </p><p>  SECT 49  Arbitration--acquisition of property<lf> 	(1)	This clause applies to a provision of this Part that authorises the conduct of an arbitration (whether by the ACCC or another person).<p> 	(2)	The provision has no effect to the extent (if any) to which it purports to authorise the acquisition of property if that acquisition:</p><p> 

 	(3)	In this clause:</p><p> **_acquisition of property_** has the same meaning as in paragraph 51(xxxi) of the Constitution.</p><p> **_just terms_** has the same meaning as in paragraph 51(xxxi) of the Constitution. </p><p>  SECT 50  Relationship between this Part and the National Transmission Network<lf> Sale Act 1998<lf> 		Part 3 of the _National Transmission Network Sale Act 1998_ does not apply in relation to an access seeker seeking access to a broadcasting transmission tower or a site to the extent to which this Part applies in relation to the access seeker seeking access to that tower or site. <p> Part 6--Collection of datacasting charge<lf>    <p>  SECT 51  Collection of datacasting charge<lf> _Definitions_<p> 	(1)	In this clause:</p><p> **_charge_** means charge imposed by the _Datacasting Charge (Imposition) Act 1998_.</p><p> **_late payment penalty_** means an amount that is payable by way of penalty in accordance with a determination under subclause (3).</p><p> _When charge due and payable_</p><p> 	(2)	Charge is due and payable at the time ascertained in accordance with a written determination made by the ABA.</p><p> _Late payment penalty_</p><p> 	(3)	The ABA may, by written instrument, determine that, if any charge payable by a person remains unpaid after the time when it became due for payment, the person is liable to pay to the Commonwealth, by way of penalty, an amount calculated at the rate of:</p><p> 

 on the amount unpaid, computed from that time.</p><p> _Determination has effect_</p><p> 	(4)	A determination under subclause (3) has effect accordingly.</p><p> _Remission of penalty_</p><p> 	(5)	A determination under subclause (3) may authorise the ABA to make decisions about the remission of the whole or a part of an amount of late payment penalty.</p><p> _Payment of charge and late payment penalty_</p><p> 	(6)	Charge and late payment penalty are payable to the ABA on behalf of the Commonwealth.</p><p> _Recovery of charge and penalty_</p><p> 	(7)	Charge and late payment penalty may be recovered by the ABA, on behalf of the Commonwealth, as debts due to the Commonwealth.</p><p> 
<center>Back to Top</center>
 _Payment into Consolidated Revenue Fund_</p><p> 	(8)	Amounts received by way of charge or late payment penalty must be paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund.</p><p> _Disallowable instrument_</p><p> 	(9)	A determination under subclause (2) or (3) is a disallowable instrument for the purposes of section 46A of the _Acts Interpretation Act 1901_. </p><p>  SECT 52  Cancellation of certain exemptions from datacasting charge<lf> 	(1)	This clause cancels the effect of a provision of another Act that would have the effect of exempting a person from liability to pay charge imposed by the _Datacasting Charge (Imposition) Act 1998_.<p> 	(2)	The cancellation does not apply if the provision of the other Act is enacted after the commencement of this clause and refers specifically to charge imposed by the _Datacasting Charge (Imposition) Act 1998_. </p><p>  SECT 53  ACA to report to the Minister on principles for determining the amount<lf> of datacasting charge<lf> 	(1)	Before the ACA makes its first determination under section 7 of the _Datacasting Charge (Imposition) Act 1998_, the ACA must prepare, and give to the Minister, a written report about proposals that are to be embodied in that determination.<p> 	(2)	The report must contain a statement setting out the extent to which the ACA had regard to competitive neutrality principles in formulating those proposals.</p><p> 	(3)	The Minister must cause copies of the report to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 15 sitting days of that House after receiving the report. </p><p> Part 7--Injunctions<lf>    <p>  SECT 54  Injunctions<lf> _Restraining injunctions_<p> 	(1)	If:</p><p> 

 the Federal Court may, on the application of the ABA, grant an injunction:</p><p> 

 	(2)	If a person has engaged, is engaging or is proposing to engage in any conduct in contravention of Part 5 of this Schedule, the Federal Court may, on the application of the ABA or of the access seeker referred to in that Part, grant an injunction:</p><p> 

 _Performance injunctions_</p><p> 	(3)	If:</p><p> 

 the Federal Court may, on the application of the ABA, grant an injunction requiring the holder to do that act or thing. </p><p> 	(4)	If:</p><p> 

 the Federal Court may, on the application of the ABA or of the access seeker referred to in that Part, grant an injunction requiring the person to do that act or thing. </p><p>  SECT 55  Interim injunctions<lf> _Grant of interim injunction_<p> 	(1)	If an application is made to the court for an injunction under clause 54, the court may, before considering the application, grant an interim injunction restraining a person from engaging in conduct of a kind referred to in that clause.</p><p> _No undertakings as to damages_</p><p> 
<center>Back to Top</center>
 	(2)	The court is not to require an applicant for an injunction under clause 54, as a condition of granting an interim injunction, to give any undertakings as to damages. </p><p>  SECT 56  Discharge etc. of injunctions<lf> 		The court may discharge or vary an injunction granted under this Part. <p>  SECT 57  Certain limits on granting injunctions not to apply<lf> _Restraining injunctions_<p> 	(1)	The power of the court under this Part to grant an injunction restraining a person from engaging in conduct of a particular kind may be exercised:</p><p> 

 _Performance injunctions_</p><p> 	(2)	The power of the court under this Part to grant an injunction requiring a person to do an act or thing may be exercised:</p><p> 

  SECT 58  Other powers of the court unaffected<lf> 		The powers conferred on the court under this Part are in addition to, and not instead of, any other powers of the court, whether conferred by this Act or otherwise. <p> Part 8--Reviews<lf> <lf>    <p>  SECT 59  Reviews before 1 January 2000<lf> 	(1)	Before 1 January 2000, the Minister must cause to be conducted a review of the following matters:<p> 

</p> 

 	(2)	A review under subclause (1) of the matter referred to in subparagraph (1)(e)(i) is to be conducted on the basis that:</lf></p><p> 

 should not be eligible for the allocation of spectrum as mentioned in that subparagraph.</p><p> 	(3)	The Minister must cause to be prepared a report of a review under subclause (1).</p><p> 	(4)	The Minister must cause copies of a report to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 15 sitting days of that House after the completion of the preparation of the report.</p><p> 	(5)	For the purposes of this clause, a regional licence area is **_underserved_** if, and only if, there are fewer than 3 commercial television broadcasting services in that area. </p><p>  SECT 60  Reviews before 31 December 2005<lf> 	(1)	Before 31 December 2005, the Minister must cause to be conducted a review of the following matters:<p> 

 	(2)	The Minister must cause to be prepared a report of a review under subclause (1).</p><p> 	(3)	The Minister must cause copies of a report to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 15 sitting days of that House after the completion of the preparation of the report. </p><p> Part 9--Charges relating to the ABA's costs<lf> <lf>    <p>  SECT 61  Charges relating to the ABA's costs<lf> 	(1)	The ABA may, by written instrument, make determinations fixing charges for any matter in relation to which expenses are incurred by the ABA under:<p> 

 and specifying the persons by whom, and the times when, the charges are payable.</p><p> 	(2)	A charge fixed under subclause (1) must not be such as to amount to taxation.</p><p> 	(3)	A determination under subclause (1) is a disallowable instrument for the purposes of section 46A of the _Acts Interpretation Act 1901_. </p><p> Part 10--Review of decisions<lf>    <p>  SECT 62  Review by the AAT<lf> _Commercial television licensees_<p> 	(1)	An application may be made to the AAT for a review of any of the following decisions made by the ABA under the commercial television conversion scheme:</p><p> 

</p> 	(2)	An application under subclause (1) may only be made by the licensee concerned.</lf></p><p> _National broadcasters_</p><p> 	(3)	An application may be made to the AAT for a review of any of the following decisions made by the ABA under the national television conversion scheme:</p><p> 

 	(4)	An application under subclause (3) may only be made by the national broadcaster concerned.</p><p> _Transmitter access regime_</p><p> 	(5)	An application may be made to the AAT for a review of a decision of the ABA to issue a certificate under subclause 45(5) or 46(5).</p><p> 	(6)	An application under subclause (5) may only be made by the access seeker concerned.</p><p> 	(7)	An application may be made to the AAT for a review of a decision of the ABA to refuse to issue a certificate under subclause 45(5) or 46(5).</p><p> 	(8)	An application under subclause (7) may only be made by the owner or operator of the broadcasting transmission tower concerned. </p><p>  SECT 63  Notification of decisions to include notification of reasons and appeal<lf> rights<lf> 		If the ABA makes a decision that is reviewable under clause 62, the ABA is to include in the document by which the decision is notified:<p> 

 Part 11--Regional equalisation plan<lf>    <p>  SECT 64  Regional equalisation plan<lf> 	(1)	As soon as practicable after the commencement of this clause, the Minister must, by writing, formulate a plan (the **_regional equalisation plan_**) which specifies the measures proposed to be taken by the Minister or the Commonwealth Government:<p> 

 _Objectives_</p><p> 	(2)	In formulating or varying the regional equalisation plan, the Minister must have regard to the following objectives:</p><p> 

 	(3)	Subclause (2) does not limit the matters to which the Minister may have regard.</p><p> _Variation of plan_</p><p> 	(4)	The regional equalisation plan may be varied, but not revoked, in accordance with subsection 33(3) of the _Acts Interpretation Act 1901_.</p><p> 	(5)	Subclause (4) does not limit the application of subsection 33(3) of the _Acts Interpretation Act 1901_ to other instruments under this Act.</p><p> _Disallowable instrument_</p><p> 	(6)	An instrument under subclause (1) is a disallowable instrument for the purposes of section 46A of the _Acts Interpretation Act 1901_. </p><p> <center>**

###  TELEVISION BROADCASTING SERVICES (DIGITAL CONVERSION) ACT 1998 -<lf> Schedule 2--Amendment of the Radiocommunications Act 1992<lf> </lf></lf>
**</center>   </p><p> **1  Section 5**</p><p> Insert:</p><p> **_datacasting service_** has the same meaning as in Schedule 4 to the _Broadcasting Services Act 1992_.</p><p> **2  After section 9A**</p><p> 
<center>Back to Top</center>
 Insert: </p><p>  SECT 9B  Digital mode<lf> 		For the purposes of this Act, a service is transmitted in **_digital mode_** if the service is transmitted using a digital modulation technique.<p> **3  Subsection 100(1)**</p><p> Omit "section 102", substitute "sections 100B, 102 and 102A".</p><p> **4  Subsection 100(2)**</p><p> Omit "decision", substitute "determination".</p><p> **5  Subsection 100(2)**</p><p> After "subsection 34(1)", insert "or (3)".</p><p> **6  After section 100**</p><p> Insert: </p><p>  SECT 100A  NBS transmitter licences--authorisation of datacasting<lf> services<lf> 	(1)	If:<p> 

 the licence is also taken to authorise the operation of the transmitter or transmitters concerned for transmitting datacasting services in digital mode using those channels.</p><p> 	(1A)	Subsection (1) has no effect until a day to be fixed by Proclamation.</p><p> 	(1B)	A Proclamation under subsection (1A) must not be made except in accordance with a resolution passed by each House of the Parliament in pursuance of a motion of which notice has been given not less than 15 sitting days of that House before the motion is moved.</p><p> 	(1C)	A Proclamation under subsection (1A) must not be made before the last occasion on which a copy of a report of a review under subclause 59(1) of Schedule 4 to the _Broadcasting Services Act 1992_ is laid before a House of the Parliament in accordance with subclause 59(4) of that Schedule.</p><p> 	(2)	In this section:</p><p> **_national broadcasting service_** has the same meaning as in Schedule 4 to the _Broadcasting Services Act 1992_. </p><p> **_NBS transmitter licence_** means a transmitter licence for a transmitter that is for use for transmitting, to the public, a national broadcasting service. </p><p>  SECT 100B  NBS transmitter licences required to be issued under digital<lf> conversion schemes<lf> 	(1)	If the ACA is required, under a scheme in force under clause 19 of Schedule 4 to the _Broadcasting Services Act 1992_, to issue an NBS transmitter licence to a national broadcaster, the ACA must issue to the broadcaster an NBS transmitter licence that authorises the operation of one or more specified radiocommunications transmitters for transmitting the national broadcasting service concerned in digital mode.<p> 	(2)	If an NBS transmitter licence is issued under this section, the licence is also taken to authorise the operation of the transmitter or transmitters concerned for transmitting datacasting services in digital mode using the channel or channels concerned.</p><p> 	(2A)	Subsection (2) has no effect until a day to be fixed by Proclamation.</p><p> 	(2B)	A Proclamation under subsection (2A) must not be made except in accordance with a resolution passed by each House of the Parliament in pursuance of a motion of which notice has been given not less than 15 sitting days of that House before the motion is moved.</p><p> 	(2C)	A Proclamation under subsection (2A) must not be made before the last occasion on which a copy of a report of a review under subclause 59(1) of Schedule 4 to the _Broadcasting Services Act 1992_ is laid before a House of the Parliament in accordance with subclause 59(4) of that Schedule.</p><p> 	(3)	In this section:</p><p> **_national broadcaster_** has the same meaning as in the _Broadcasting Services Act 1992_.</p><p> **_national broadcasting service_** has the same meaning as in Schedule 4 to the _Broadcasting Services Act 1992_.</p><p> **_NBS transmitter licence_** means a transmitter licence for a transmitter that is for use for transmitting, to the public, a national broadcasting service.</p><p> **7  At the end of section 102**</p><p> Add:</p><p> 	(3)	If:</p><p> 

 the licence is also taken to authorise the operation of the transmitter or transmitters concerned for transmitting datacasting services in digital mode 
<center>Back to Top</center>
 using those channels.</p><p> 	(3A)	Subsection (3) has no effect until a day to be fixed by Proclamation.</p><p> 	(3B)	A Proclamation under subsection (3A) must not be made except in accordance with a resolution passed by each House of the Parliament in pursuance of a motion of which notice has been given not less than 15 sitting days of that House before the motion is moved.</p><p> 	(3C)	A Proclamation under subsection (3A) must not be made before the last occasion on which a copy of a report of a review under subclause 59(1) of Schedule 4 to the _Broadcasting Services Act 1992_ is laid before a House of the Parliament in accordance with subclause 59(4) of that Schedule.</p><p> **8  After section 102**</p><p> Insert: </p><p>  SECT 102A  Transmitter licences required to be issued under digital conversion<lf> schemes<lf> 	(1)	If the ACA is required, under a scheme in force under clause 6 of Schedule 4 to the _Broadcasting Services Act 1992_, to issue a transmitter licence to a person who holds a commercial television broadcasting licence (the **_related licence_**), the ACA must issue to the person a transmitter licence that authorises the operation of one or more specified radiocommunications transmitters for transmitting the broadcasting service concerned in digital mode in accordance with the related licence.<p> 	(2)	If the related licence is transferred, the transmitter licence is taken to be issued to the person to whom the related licence is transferred.</p><p> 	(3)	If a transmitter licence is issued under this section, the licence is also taken to authorise the operation of the transmitter or transmitters concerned for transmitting datacasting services in digital mode using the channel or channels concerned.</p><p> 	(4)	Subsection (3) has no effect until a day to be fixed by Proclamation.</p><p> 	(5)	A Proclamation under subsection (4) must not be made except in accordance with a resolution passed by each House of the Parliament in pursuance of a motion of which notice has been given not less than 15 sitting days of that House before the motion is moved.</p><p> 	(6)	A Proclamation under subsection (4) must not be made before the last occasion on which a copy of a report of a review under subclause 59(1) of Schedule 4 to the _Broadcasting Services Act 1992_ is laid before a House of the Parliament in accordance with subclause 59(4) of that Schedule.</p><p> **9  Subsections 103(2) and (4)**</p><p> Omit "101A or 102", substitute "101A, 102 or 102A".</p><p> **10  Subsection 106A(2)**</p><p> After "102", insert "or 102A".</p><p> **11  Subsection 107(3)**</p><p> Omit "101A or 102", substitute "101A, 102 or 102A".</p><p> **12  Subsection 108(5)**</p><p> Omit "101A or 102", substitute "101A, 102 or 102A".</p><p> **13  Subsections 109(1) and (2)**</p><p> After "102", insert "or 102A".</p><p> **14  Paragraph 111(1)(d)**</p><p> Omit "101A or 102", substitute "101A, 102 or 102A".</p><p> **15  At the end of section 111**</p><p> Add:</p><p> 	(5)	If the ACA is required, under a scheme in force under clause 6 or 19 of Schedule 4 to the _Broadcasting Services Act 1992_, to vary the conditions of a transmitter licence, the ACA must, by written notice given to the licensee, vary those conditions accordingly.</p><p> **16  Subsection 125(2)**</p><p> Omit "101A or 102", substitute "101A, 102 or 102A".</p><p> **17  Subsection 129(1)**</p><p> Omit "101A or 102", substitute "101A, 102 or 102A".</p><p> **18  Subsection 130(3)**</p><p> Repeal the subsection, substitute:</p><p> 	(3)	In deciding whether to renew the licence, the ACA:</p><p> 

 **19  Subsection 131AB(2)**</p><p> Repeal the subsection, substitute:</p><p> 	(2)	In deciding whether to transfer the licence, the ACA:</p><p> 

 **20  After Division 8 of Part 3.3**</p><p> Insert: </p><p> Division 9--Licences authorising the provision of datacasting services<lf> <lf>  SECT 131AD  Licences authorising the provision of datacasting services<lf> 	(1)	The ACA must not issue a transmitter licence authorising the operation of a transmitter for transmitting datacasting services in digital mode using a part of the spectrum covered by a determination under subsection 34(3) of the _Broadcasting Services Act 1992_.<p> 	(2)	Subsection (1) ceases to have effect on a day to be fixed by Proclamation.</p><p> 	(3)	A Proclamation under subsection (2) must not be made except in accordance with a resolution passed by each House of the Parliament in pursuance of a motion of which notice has been given not less than 15 sitting days of that House before the motion is moved.</p><p> 	(4)	A Proclamation under subsection (2) must not be made before the last occasion on which a copy of a report of a review under subclause 59(1) of Schedule 4 to the _Broadcasting Services Act 1992_ is laid before a House of the Parliament in accordance with subclause 59(4) of that Schedule.</p><p> [_Minister&apos;s second reading speech made in--_</p><p> _House of Representatives on 8 April 1998_</p><p> _Senate on 23 June 1998_]</p><p> (68/98) </p><p> 

</p></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></lf></p>

</lf></lf></p></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p>

</lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p>

</lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p>

</lf></p></lf></p></lf></lf></p></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p>

</lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p>

</lf></lf></p></lf></lf></p></lf></lf></p></lf></p>

</lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p>

</lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf>

</p></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p>

</lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></lf></p>

</lf></p></lf></lf></p></lf></lf>
</lf>












