**<b>

### <center><name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - Updated as at 1 March 1994 (HISTACT CHAP 1237 #DATE 01:03:1994) </name></center>
</b>** *1* The High Court of Australia Act 1979 as shown in this reprint comprises Act No. 137, 1979 amended as indicated in the Tables below.<lf>                                  Table of Acts<lf>     Act             Date              Date of                    Application,<lf>     Number and      of Assent         commencement               saving or<lf>     year                                                         transitional<lf>                                                                  provisions<lf>     High Court of Australia Act 1979<lf>     137, 1979       23 Nov 1979       21 Apr 1980 (see<lf>                                       Gazette 1980, No. S82)<lf>     Public Service Reform Act 1984<lf>     63, 1984        25 June 1984      S.151 (1): 1 July 1984     S.151(9)<lf>                                       (see Gazette 1984,<lf>                                       No. S245) (a)<lf>     Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act (No. 1) 1985<lf>     65, 1985        5 June 1985       S. 3: 3 July 1985 (b)      -<lf>     Statutory Instruments (Tabling and Disallowance) Legislation Amendment Act<lf>     1988<lf>     99, 1988        2 Dec 1988        2 Dec 1988                 -<lf>     Lands Acquisition (Repeal and Consequential Provisions) Act 1989<lf>     21, 1989        20 Apr 1989       9 June 1989 (see s. 2      -<lf>                                       and Gazette 1989,<lf>                                       No. S185)<lf>     Courts and Tribunals Administration Amendment Act 1989<lf>     157, 1989       5 Dec 1989        Parts 1 and 6 (ss.1, 2,    -<lf>                                       17 and 18): Royal Assent<lf>                                       Ss. 3-16 and 19-25:<lf>                                       1 Jan 1990 (see Gazette<lf>                                       1989, No. S398)<lf>     Industrial Relations Legislation Amendment Act 1991<lf>     122, 1991       27 June 1991      Ss. 4 (1), 10 (b) and      S. 31 (2)<lf>                                       15-20: 1 Dec 1988<lf>                                       Ss. 28 (b)-(e), 30 and<lf>                                       31: 10 Dec 1991 (see<lf>                                       Gazette 1991 No. S332)<lf>                                       Remainder: Royal Assent<lf>     Prime Minister and Cabinet Legislation Amendment Act 1991<lf>     199, 1991       18 Dec 1991       18 Dec 1991                -<lf>     Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993<lf>     13, 1994        18 Jan 1994       Part 6 (ss. 27-34):        S. 34 (see<lf>                                       (see Note 2)               Note 2)<lf>   (a) The High Court of Australia Act 1979 was amended by section 151 (1) only of the Public Service Reform Act 1984, subsection 2 (4) of which provides as follows:<lf>   "(4) The remaining provisions of this Act shall come into operation on such day as is, or on such respective days as are, fixed by Proclamation."<lf>   (b) The High Court of Australia Act 1979 was amended by section 3 only of the Statute Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act (No.1) 1985, subsection 2 (1) of which provides as follows:<lf>   "(1) Subject to this section, this Act shall come into operation on the twenty-eighth day after the day on which it receives the Royal Assent."<lf>                                Table of Amendments<lf>     ad=added or inserted am=amended rep=repealed rs=repealed and substituted<lf>     Provision affected            How affected<lf>     S. 17                         am. No. 21, 1989<lf>     S. 19                         am. No. 99, 1988<lf>     S. 20                         am. No. 199, 1991<lf>     S. 22                         rs. No. 122, 1991<lf>     S. 24                         am. No. 122, 1991<lf>     S. 26                         am. No. 63, 1984; No. 199, 1991<lf>     S. 29                         rep. No. 65, 1985<lf>     S. 40                         am. No. 157, 1989<lf> </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - TABLE OF PROVISIONS </name>
</b>** 

## TABLE
<tables> <tt>                           TABLE OF PROVISIONS<lf> Section<lf>     1\.    Short title<lf>     2\.    Commencement<lf>     3\.    Repeal<lf>     4\.    Interpretation<lf>             PART II - CONSTITUTION AND SEAT OF THE HIGH COURT<lf>                  Division 1 - Justices of the High Court<lf>     5\.    The High Court<lf>     6\.    Consultation with State Attorneys-General on appointment of<lf>           Justices<lf>     7\.    Qualification of Justices<lf>     8\.    Seniority<lf>     9\.    Acting Chief Justice<lf>    10\.    Justices not to hold other office<lf>    11\.    Oath or affirmation of allegiance and of office<lf>    12\.    Salary and allowances<lf>    13\.    Appropriation<lf>                    Division 2 - Seat of the High Court<lf>    14\.    Seat<lf>    15\.    Places of sittings<lf>    16\.    Judgment may be pronounced at any sitting<lf>                PART III - ADMINISTRATION OF THE HIGH COURT<lf>    17\.    Administration of the Court<lf>    18\.    Clerk of the Court<lf>    19\.    Functions and powers of the Clerk<lf>    20\.    Terms and conditions of appointment<lf>    21\.    Remuneration and allowances<lf>    22\.    Leave of absence<lf>    23\.    Resignation<lf>    24\.    Termination of appointment<lf>    25\.    Acting Clerk<lf>    26\.    Officers and employees<lf>    27\.    Marshal and Deputy Marshals<lf>    28\.    Registrar and Deputy Registrars may administer oaths and<lf>           affirmations<lf>                     PART IV - REGISTRY AND PROCEDURE<lf>    30\.    Registry<lf>    31\.    Transfer of proceedings<lf>    32\.    Seals<lf>    33\.    Writs etc.<lf>    34\.    Date of process<lf>                             PART V - FINANCE<lf>    35\.    Moneys appropriated for the Court<lf>    36\.    Estimates<lf>    37\.    Application of moneys appropriated for the Court<lf>    38\.    Trust moneys<lf>    39\.    Other moneys<lf>    40\.    Limitation on contracts<lf>    41\.    Bank accounts<lf>    42\.    Proper accounts to be kept<lf>    43\.    Audit<lf>    44\.    Exemption from taxation<lf>                        PART VI - MISCELLANEOUS<lf>    45\.    Proceedings in respect of administration of the Court<lf>    46\.    Exercise of powers of the Court in administrative matters<lf>    47\.    Annual reports and financial statements<lf>    48\.    Rules of Court<lf>                               SCHEDULE<lf> </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></tt></tables>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - LONG TITLE </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>      To make provision with respect to the High Court of Australia<lf> </lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - PART I  PART I - PRELIMINARY </name>
</b>** 
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 1 Short title </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   1\. This Act may be cited as the High Court of Australia Act 1979.*1* SEE NOTES TO FIRST ARTICLE OF THIS CHAPTER . </sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 2 Commencement </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   2\. This Act shall come into operation on a date to be fixed by Proclamation.*1* SEE NOTES TO FIRST ARTICLE OF THIS CHAPTER . </sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 3 Repeal </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   3\. The following Acts are repealed:<lf>   High Court Procedure Act 1903;<lf>   High Court Procedure Amendment Act 1903;<lf>   High Court Procedure Act 1915;<lf>   High Court Procedure Act 1921;<lf>   High Court Procedure Act 1925;<lf>   High Court Procedure Act 1933\. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 4 Interpretation </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   4.*2* (1) In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears:<lf>   "appoint" includes "re-appoint";<lf>   "approved bank" means the Reserve Bank of Australia or another bank for the time being approved by the Treasurer or a person authorized by the Treasurer to give approvals for the purposes of the provision in which the expression occurs;<lf>   "Chief Justice" includes a Justice for the time being performing the duties and exercising the powers of the Chief Justice;<lf>   "Clerk" means the Clerk of the Court;<lf>   "Court" means the High Court;<lf>   "Deputy Registrar" means a Deputy Registrar of the Court;<lf>   "Deputy Marshal" means a Deputy Marshal of the Court;<lf>   "Justice" means a Justice of the Court and includes the Chief Justice;<lf>   "Marshal" means the Marshal of the Court;<lf>   "Minister", in relation to a State or the Northern Territory, means:<lf>   (a) in the case of a State - a Minister of the Crown of that State; or<lf>   (b) in the case of the Northern Territory - a person holding Ministerial Office under section 36 of the Northern Territory (Self-Government) Act 1978;<lf>   "proceeding" means any proceeding in the Court whether civil or criminal and whether in the original or appellate jurisdiction of the Court;<lf>   "Registrar" means the Registrar of the Court;<lf>   "Rules of Court" means Rules of Court under section 86 of the Judiciary Act 1903\. 

<lf>   (2) Any reference in this Act to moneys or property does not include a reference to moneys or property received by the High Court in connection with a proceeding. *2* Sections 4, 18-26, 28, 30, 33, 41 and 45 are amended by sections 27-34 only of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993\. Sections 28-34 provide as follows:<lf> Interpretation<lf>   28\. Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by inserting "appointed under subsection 26 (1)" after "Court" in the definitions of "Deputy Registrar", "Deputy Marshal" and "Marshal" in subsection (1);<lf>   (b) by omitting from subsection (1) the definitions of "Clerk" and "Registrar";<lf>   (c) by inserting in subsection (1) the following definitions:<lf>   "'Chief Executive and Principal Registrar' means the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar of the Court appointed under section 18;<lf>   "'Senior Registrar' means the Senior Registrar of the Court appointed under subsection 26 (1).".<lf> Changing references to Clerk to references to Chief Executive and Principal Registrar<lf>   29\. The following provisions of the Principal Act are amended by omitting "Clerk" (wherever occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar":<lf>   Section 18; subsections 19 (1), (2), (3) and (7); section 20; subsections 21 (1), (2) and (4); sections 22 and 23; subsections 24 (1) and (2); subsections 25 (1), (3), (4), (5) and (6); subsections 26 (3) and (6); sections 41 and 45.<lf> Officers and employees<lf>   30\. Section 26 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by omitting subsections (1) and (2) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(1) The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar is to appoint such other officers of the High Court as the Court considers necessary.";<lf>   (b) by omitting subsection (5) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(5) An appointment under subsection (1) is not a public office for the purposes of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973.";<lf>   (c) by omitting subsection (7) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(7) The Senior Registrar and Deputy Registrars are to perform such duties in respect of proceedings in the Court as are assigned to them by Rules of Court, by an order of the Court or by the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.".<lf> Certain officers may administer oaths and affirmations<lf>   31\. Section 28 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting "The Registrar," and substituting "The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar, the Senior Registrar,".<lf> Registry<lf>   32\. Section 30 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subsection (2) "Registrar" and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Writs etc.<lf>   33\. Section 33 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subparagraph (c) (i) "Registrar" (twice occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Transitional<lf>   34\. (1) To avoid doubt, section 29 is taken (in particular, for the purposes of section 25B of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901) to have altered the name of the office established by section 18 of the Principal Act.<lf>   (2) In any Act, in any instrument under an Act, in any award or other industrial determination or order or any industrial agreement, in any other order (whether executive, judicial or otherwise), in any contract, in any pleading in, or process issued in connection with, any legal or other proceedings, or in any other instrument, a reference to the Registrar of the High Court is taken, except in relation to matters that occurred before the commencement of this Part, to be a reference to the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.<lf>   (3) The person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office as the Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act:<lf>   (a) is taken to have been appointed at that commencement as the Senior Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as amended by this Division; and<lf>   (b) subject to subsection 26 (4) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement, holds office as the Senior Registrar on the terms and conditions on which he or she held office as the Registrar immediately before that commencement.<lf>   (4) Any other person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act continues to hold office after that commencement as if he or she had been appointed to that office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement.<lf>   Subsections 2 (3) and (4) of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993 provide as follows:<lf>   "(3) Subject to subsection (4), Part 6 commences on a day to be fixed by Proclamation.<lf>   "(4) If Part 6 does not commence under subsection (3) within the period of 6 months beginning on the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent, it commences on the first day after the end of that period."<lf>   As at 1 March 1994 no date had been fixed and the amendments are not incorporated in this reprint. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf>
</lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - PART II  PART II - CONSTITUTION AND SEAT OF THE HIGH COURT </name>
</b>** 
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - DIVISION 1  Division 1 - Justices of the High Court </name>
</b>** 
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 5 The High Court </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   5\. The High Court is a superior court of record and consists of the Chief Justice and six other Justices appointed by the Governor-General by commission. </sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 6 Consultation with State Attorneys-General on appointment of Justices </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   6\. Where there is a vacancy in an office of Justice, the Attorney-General shall, before an appointment is made to the vacant office, consult with the Attorneys-General of the States in relation to the appointment. </sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 7 Qualification of Justices </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   7\. A person shall not be appointed as a Justice unless:<lf>   (a) he is or has been a Judge of a court created by the Parliament or of a court of a State or Territory; or<lf>   (b) he has been enrolled as a barrister or solicitor, as a barrister and solicitor, or as a legal practitioner, of the High Court or of the Supreme Court of a State or Territory for not less than 5 years. </lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 8 Seniority </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   8\. The Justices other than the Chief Justice have seniority according to the dates of their commissions or, where the commissions of two or more Justices bear the same date, according to the precedence assigned to them by their commissions. </sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 9 Acting Chief Justice </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   9\. Whenever:<lf>   (a) the Chief Justice is absent from Australia or is unable or unavailable to perform the duties of his office; or<lf>   (b) there is a vacancy in the office of Chief Justice;<lf> the next senior Justice who is in Australia and is able and willing to do so shall perform the duties, and may exercise the powers, of the Chief Justice, and shall, during any period of absence of the Chief Justice from Australia or during a vacancy in the office of Chief Justice, be designated Acting Chief Justice. </lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 10 Justices not to hold other office </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   10\. A Justice is not capable of accepting or holding any other office of profit within Australia. </sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 11 Oath or affirmation of allegiance and of office </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   11\. A person who is appointed as a Justice after the commencement of this Act shall, before proceeding to discharge the duties of his office, take an oath or make an affirmation in accordance with the form in the Schedule. </sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 12 Salary and allowances </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   12\. (1) The Chief Justice and the other Justices shall receive salary and annual allowances at such respective rates as are fixed from time to time by the Parliament. 

<lf>   (2) The salary and annual allowance of a Justice accrue from day to day and are payable monthly. <p><lf>   (3) The Chief Justice and the other Justices shall receive such respective allowances in respect of travelling expenses as are provided by the Parliament. </lf></p></lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 13 Appropriation </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   13\. The salaries, annual allowances and other allowances referred to in section 12 are payable out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, which, to the necessary extent, is appropriated accordingly. </sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - DIVISION 2  Division 2 - Seat of the High Court </name>
</b>** 
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 14 Seat </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   14.*3* On and after a date to be fixed by Proclamation, the seat of the High Court shall be at the seat of Government in the Australian Capital Territory. *3* S. 14 - Date fixed was 1 September 1980 (see Gazette 1980, No. S193) </sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 15 Places of sittings </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   15\. Sittings of the High Court shall be held from time to time as required at the seat of the Court but the Court may sit at other places within Australia and the external Territories. </sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 16 Judgment may be pronounced at any sitting </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   16\. The High Court may pronounce judgment at a sitting of the Court held at a place other than the place at which the relevant proceeding was held by the Court. </sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - PART III  PART III - ADMINISTRATION OF THE HIGH COURT </name>
</b>** 
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 17 Administration of the Court </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   17\. (1) The High Court shall administer its own affairs subject to, and in accordance with, this Act. 

<lf>   (2) The Court has power for the purposes of the Court to do all things that are necessary or convenient to be done for or in connection with the administration of its affairs and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, has power:<lf>   (a) to enter into contracts;<lf>   (b) to acquire, hold and dispose of real and personal property;<lf>   (c) to take on hire, to exchange, and to accept on deposit or loan, library material, and also furnishings, equipment and goods needed for the purposes of the Court;<lf>   (d) to control and manage any land or building occupied by the Court and any adjacent land or building that is declared by Proclamation to be part of the precincts of the Court;<lf>   (e) to accept gifts, devises and bequests made to the Court upon trust and act as trustee of moneys or other property vested in the Court upon trust; and<lf>   (f) to do such other things as it is authorized by this Act to do. <p><lf>   (3) Any real property, and any personal property (other than money), held by the Court shall be deemed to be the property of the Commonwealth. <p><lf>   (4) For the purposes of the Lands Acquisition Act 1989, the Court shall be deemed to be an authority incorporated by a law of the Commonwealth. <p><lf>   (5) The Court may appoint committees consisting of Justices, or of Justices and other persons, for the purpose of advising the Court in relation to:<lf>   (a) the exercise of the powers of the Court under this Act; or<lf>   (b) the making of Rules of Court. </lf></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 18 Clerk of the Court </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   18.*2* There shall be a Clerk of the High Court, who shall be appointed by the Governor-General upon the nomination of the Court. *2* Sections 4, 18-26, 28, 30, 33, 41 and 45 are amended by sections 27-34 only of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993\. Sections 28-34 provide as follows:<lf> Interpretation<lf>   28\. Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by inserting "appointed under subsection 26 (1)" after "Court" in the definitions of "Deputy Registrar", "Deputy Marshal" and "Marshal" in subsection (1);<lf>   (b) by omitting from subsection (1) the definitions of "Clerk" and "Registrar";<lf>   (c) by inserting in subsection (1) the following definitions:<lf>   "'Chief Executive and Principal Registrar' means the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar of the Court appointed under section 18;<lf>   "'Senior Registrar' means the Senior Registrar of the Court appointed under subsection 26 (1).".<lf> Changing references to Clerk to references to Chief Executive and Principal Registrar<lf>   29\. The following provisions of the Principal Act are amended by omitting "Clerk" (wherever occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar":<lf>   Section 18; subsections 19 (1), (2), (3) and (7); section 20; subsections 21 (1), (2) and (4); sections 22 and 23; subsections 24 (1) and (2); subsections 25 (1), (3), (4), (5) and (6); subsections 26 (3) and (6); sections 41 and 45.<lf> Officers and employees<lf>   30\. Section 26 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by omitting subsections (1) and (2) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(1) The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar is to appoint such other officers of the High Court as the Court considers necessary.";<lf>   (b) by omitting subsection (5) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(5) An appointment under subsection (1) is not a public office for the purposes of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973.";<lf>   (c) by omitting subsection (7) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(7) The Senior Registrar and Deputy Registrars are to perform such duties in respect of proceedings in the Court as are assigned to them by Rules of Court, by an order of the Court or by the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.".<lf> Certain officers may administer oaths and affirmations<lf>   31\. Section 28 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting "The Registrar," and substituting "The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar, the Senior Registrar,".<lf> Registry<lf>   32\. Section 30 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subsection (2) "Registrar" and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Writs etc.<lf>   33\. Section 33 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subparagraph (c) (i) "Registrar" (twice occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Transitional<lf>   34\. (1) To avoid doubt, section 29 is taken (in particular, for the purposes of section 25B of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901) to have altered the name of the office established by section 18 of the Principal Act.<lf>   (2) In any Act, in any instrument under an Act, in any award or other industrial determination or order or any industrial agreement, in any other order (whether executive, judicial or otherwise), in any contract, in any pleading in, or process issued in connection with, any legal or other proceedings, or in any other instrument, a reference to the Registrar of the High Court is taken, except in relation to matters that occurred before the commencement of this Part, to be a reference to the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.<lf>   (3) The person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office as the Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act:<lf>   (a) is taken to have been appointed at that commencement as the Senior Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as amended by this Division; and<lf>   (b) subject to subsection 26 (4) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement, holds office as the Senior Registrar on the terms and conditions on which he or she held office as the Registrar immediately before that commencement.<lf>   (4) Any other person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act continues to hold office after that commencement as if he or she had been appointed to that office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement.<lf>   Subsections 2 (3) and (4) of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993 provide as follows:<lf>   "(3) Subject to subsection (4), Part 6 commences on a day to be fixed by Proclamation.<lf>   "(4) If Part 6 does not commence under subsection (3) within the period of 6 months beginning on the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent, it commences on the first day after the end of that period."<lf>   As at 1 March 1994 no date had been fixed and the amendments are not incorporated in this reprint. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 19 Functions and powers of the Clerk </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   19.*2* (1) The Clerk has the function of acting on behalf of, and assisting, the Justices in the administration of the affairs of the High Court under section 17 and has such other functions as are conferred on him by this Act or are assigned to him by the Court. 

<lf>   (2) The Clerk has power to do all things that are necessary or convenient to be done for or in connection with the performance of his functions and, in particular, has power, on behalf of the Court, to give directions in writing for the purpose of regulating the conduct of persons on any land or in any building referred to in paragraph 17 (2) (d). <p><lf>   (3) Where directions are given by the Clerk under subsection (2):<lf>   (a) a copy of the directions shall be published in the Gazette; and<lf>   (b) the directions have effect on and from the date of publication. <p><lf>   (4) The provisions of section 48 (except paragraphs (1) (a) and (b) and subsection (2)) and sections 48A, 48B and 49 of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 apply, by force of this section, to directions given under subsection (2) of this section in like manner as those provisions apply to regulations. <p><lf>   (5) Nothing in the provisions applied by subsection (4) affects the operation of a direction given under subsection (2) at any time before the direction becomes void, or is disallowed, in accordance with those provisions. <p><lf>   (6) A person who contravenes or fails to comply with a direction in force under subsection (2) is guilty of an offence.<lf> Penalty: $100\. <p><lf>   (7) In the performance of his functions and the exercise of his powers the Clerk shall comply with any directions given to him by the Court. <p><lf>   (8) Nothing in this section affects the power of the Court to punish contempts of the Court. *2* Sections 4, 18-26, 28, 30, 33, 41 and 45 are amended by sections 27-34 only of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993\. Sections 28-34 provide as follows:<lf> Interpretation<lf>   28\. Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by inserting "appointed under subsection 26 (1)" after "Court" in the definitions of "Deputy Registrar", "Deputy Marshal" and "Marshal" in subsection (1);<lf>   (b) by omitting from subsection (1) the definitions of "Clerk" and "Registrar";<lf>   (c) by inserting in subsection (1) the following definitions:<lf>   "'Chief Executive and Principal Registrar' means the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar of the Court appointed under section 18;<lf>   "'Senior Registrar' means the Senior Registrar of the Court appointed under subsection 26 (1).".<lf> Changing references to Clerk to references to Chief Executive and Principal Registrar<lf>   29\. The following provisions of the Principal Act are amended by omitting "Clerk" (wherever occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar":<lf>   Section 18; subsections 19 (1), (2), (3) and (7); section 20; subsections 21 (1), (2) and (4); sections 22 and 23; subsections 24 (1) and (2); subsections 25 (1), (3), (4), (5) and (6); subsections 26 (3) and (6); sections 41 and 45.<lf> Officers and employees<lf>   30\. Section 26 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by omitting subsections (1) and (2) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(1) The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar is to appoint such other officers of the High Court as the Court considers necessary.";<lf>   (b) by omitting subsection (5) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(5) An appointment under subsection (1) is not a public office for the purposes of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973.";<lf>   (c) by omitting subsection (7) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(7) The Senior Registrar and Deputy Registrars are to perform such duties in respect of proceedings in the Court as are assigned to them by Rules of Court, by an order of the Court or by the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.".<lf> Certain officers may administer oaths and affirmations<lf>   31\. Section 28 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting "The Registrar," and substituting "The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar, the Senior Registrar,".<lf> Registry<lf>   32\. Section 30 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subsection (2) "Registrar" and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Writs etc.<lf>   33\. Section 33 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subparagraph (c) (i) "Registrar" (twice occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Transitional<lf>   34\. (1) To avoid doubt, section 29 is taken (in particular, for the purposes of section 25B of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901) to have altered the name of the office established by section 18 of the Principal Act.<lf>   (2) In any Act, in any instrument under an Act, in any award or other industrial determination or order or any industrial agreement, in any other order (whether executive, judicial or otherwise), in any contract, in any pleading in, or process issued in connection with, any legal or other proceedings, or in any other instrument, a reference to the Registrar of the High Court is taken, except in relation to matters that occurred before the commencement of this Part, to be a reference to the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.<lf>   (3) The person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office as the Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act:<lf>   (a) is taken to have been appointed at that commencement as the Senior Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as amended by this Division; and<lf>   (b) subject to subsection 26 (4) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement, holds office as the Senior Registrar on the terms and conditions on which he or she held office as the Registrar immediately before that commencement.<lf>   (4) Any other person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act continues to hold office after that commencement as if he or she had been appointed to that office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement.<lf>   Subsections 2 (3) and (4) of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993 provide as follows:<lf>   "(3) Subject to subsection (4), Part 6 commences on a day to be fixed by Proclamation.<lf>   "(4) If Part 6 does not commence under subsection (3) within the period of 6 months beginning on the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent, it commences on the first day after the end of that period."<lf>   As at 1 March 1994 no date had been fixed and the amendments are not incorporated in this reprint. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></lf></lf></p></lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 20 Terms and conditions of appointment </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   20\. *2* (1) The Clerk holds office for such period, not exceeding 5 years, as is specified in the instrument of his appointment, but is eligible for re-appointment. 

<lf>   (2) A person who has attained the age of 65 years shall not be appointed as Clerk, and a person shall not be appointed as Clerk for a period that extends beyond the date on which he will attain the age of 65 years. <p><lf>   (3) The Clerk holds office on such terms and conditions (if any) in respect of matters not provided for by this Act as are determined by the Court. *2* Sections 4, 18-26, 28, 30, 33, 41 and 45 are amended by sections 27-34 only of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993\. Sections 28-34 provide as follows:<lf> Interpretation<lf>   28\. Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by inserting "appointed under subsection 26 (1)" after "Court" in the definitions of "Deputy Registrar", "Deputy Marshal" and "Marshal" in subsection (1);<lf>   (b) by omitting from subsection (1) the definitions of "Clerk" and "Registrar";<lf>   (c) by inserting in subsection (1) the following definitions:<lf>   "'Chief Executive and Principal Registrar' means the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar of the Court appointed under section 18;<lf>   "'Senior Registrar' means the Senior Registrar of the Court appointed under subsection 26 (1).".<lf> Changing references to Clerk to references to Chief Executive and Principal Registrar<lf>   29\. The following provisions of the Principal Act are amended by omitting "Clerk" (wherever occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar":<lf>   Section 18; subsections 19 (1), (2), (3) and (7); section 20; subsections 21 (1), (2) and (4); sections 22 and 23; subsections 24 (1) and (2); subsections 25 (1), (3), (4), (5) and (6); subsections 26 (3) and (6); sections 41 and 45.<lf> Officers and employees<lf>   30\. Section 26 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by omitting subsections (1) and (2) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(1) The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar is to appoint such other officers of the High Court as the Court considers necessary.";<lf>   (b) by omitting subsection (5) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(5) An appointment under subsection (1) is not a public office for the purposes of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973.";<lf>   (c) by omitting subsection (7) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(7) The Senior Registrar and Deputy Registrars are to perform such duties in respect of proceedings in the Court as are assigned to them by Rules of Court, by an order of the Court or by the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.".<lf> Certain officers may administer oaths and affirmations<lf>   31\. Section 28 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting "The Registrar," and substituting "The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar, the Senior Registrar,".<lf> Registry<lf>   32\. Section 30 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subsection (2) "Registrar" and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Writs etc.<lf>   33\. Section 33 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subparagraph (c) (i) "Registrar" (twice occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Transitional<lf>   34\. (1) To avoid doubt, section 29 is taken (in particular, for the purposes of section 25B of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901) to have altered the name of the office established by section 18 of the Principal Act.<lf>   (2) In any Act, in any instrument under an Act, in any award or other industrial determination or order or any industrial agreement, in any other order (whether executive, judicial or otherwise), in any contract, in any pleading in, or process issued in connection with, any legal or other proceedings, or in any other instrument, a reference to the Registrar of the High Court is taken, except in relation to matters that occurred before the commencement of this Part, to be a reference to the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.<lf>   (3) The person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office as the Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act:<lf>   (a) is taken to have been appointed at that commencement as the Senior Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as amended by this Division; and<lf>   (b) subject to subsection 26 (4) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement, holds office as the Senior Registrar on the terms and conditions on which he or she held office as the Registrar immediately before that commencement.<lf>   (4) Any other person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act continues to hold office after that commencement as if he or she had been appointed to that office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement.<lf>   Subsections 2 (3) and (4) of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993 provide as follows:<lf>   "(3) Subject to subsection (4), Part 6 commences on a day to be fixed by Proclamation.<lf>   "(4) If Part 6 does not commence under subsection (3) within the period of 6 months beginning on the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent, it commences on the first day after the end of that period."<lf>   As at 1 March 1994 no date had been fixed and the amendments are not incorporated in this reprint. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 21 Remuneration and allowances </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   21.*2* (1) The Clerk shall be paid such remuneration as is determined by the Remuneration Tribunal, but, if no determination of that remuneration by the Tribunal is in operation, he shall be paid such remuneration as is prescribed by Rules of Court. 

<lf>   (2) The Clerk shall be paid such allowances as are prescribed by Rules of Court. <p><lf>   (3) This section has effect subject to the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973\. <p><lf>   (4) Subsection 7 (9) of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973 has effect in relation to the remuneration and allowances payable to the Clerk as if the High Court were a public statutory corporation and the Clerk held an office in the service of that corporation. *2* Sections 4, 18-26, 28, 30, 33, 41 and 45 are amended by sections 27-34 only of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993\. Sections 28-34 provide as follows:<lf> Interpretation<lf>   28\. Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by inserting "appointed under subsection 26 (1)" after "Court" in the definitions of "Deputy Registrar", "Deputy Marshal" and "Marshal" in subsection (1);<lf>   (b) by omitting from subsection (1) the definitions of "Clerk" and "Registrar";<lf>   (c) by inserting in subsection (1) the following definitions:<lf>   "'Chief Executive and Principal Registrar' means the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar of the Court appointed under section 18;<lf>   "'Senior Registrar' means the Senior Registrar of the Court appointed under subsection 26 (1).".<lf> Changing references to Clerk to references to Chief Executive and Principal Registrar<lf>   29\. The following provisions of the Principal Act are amended by omitting "Clerk" (wherever occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar":<lf>   Section 18; subsections 19 (1), (2), (3) and (7); section 20; subsections 21 (1), (2) and (4); sections 22 and 23; subsections 24 (1) and (2); subsections 25 (1), (3), (4), (5) and (6); subsections 26 (3) and (6); sections 41 and 45.<lf> Officers and employees<lf>   30\. Section 26 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by omitting subsections (1) and (2) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(1) The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar is to appoint such other officers of the High Court as the Court considers necessary.";<lf>   (b) by omitting subsection (5) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(5) An appointment under subsection (1) is not a public office for the purposes of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973.";<lf>   (c) by omitting subsection (7) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(7) The Senior Registrar and Deputy Registrars are to perform such duties in respect of proceedings in the Court as are assigned to them by Rules of Court, by an order of the Court or by the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.".<lf> Certain officers may administer oaths and affirmations<lf>   31\. Section 28 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting "The Registrar," and substituting "The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar, the Senior Registrar,".<lf> Registry<lf>   32\. Section 30 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subsection (2) "Registrar" and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Writs etc.<lf>   33\. Section 33 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subparagraph (c) (i) "Registrar" (twice occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Transitional<lf>   34\. (1) To avoid doubt, section 29 is taken (in particular, for the purposes of section 25B of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901) to have altered the name of the office established by section 18 of the Principal Act.<lf>   (2) In any Act, in any instrument under an Act, in any award or other industrial determination or order or any industrial agreement, in any other order (whether executive, judicial or otherwise), in any contract, in any pleading in, or process issued in connection with, any legal or other proceedings, or in any other instrument, a reference to the Registrar of the High Court is taken, except in relation to matters that occurred before the commencement of this Part, to be a reference to the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.<lf>   (3) The person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office as the Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act:<lf>   (a) is taken to have been appointed at that commencement as the Senior Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as amended by this Division; and<lf>   (b) subject to subsection 26 (4) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement, holds office as the Senior Registrar on the terms and conditions on which he or she held office as the Registrar immediately before that commencement.<lf>   (4) Any other person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act continues to hold office after that commencement as if he or she had been appointed to that office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement.<lf>   Subsections 2 (3) and (4) of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993 provide as follows:<lf>   "(3) Subject to subsection (4), Part 6 commences on a day to be fixed by Proclamation.<lf>   "(4) If Part 6 does not commence under subsection (3) within the period of 6 months beginning on the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent, it commences on the first day after the end of that period."<lf>   As at 1 March 1994 no date had been fixed and the amendments are not incorporated in this reprint. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 22 Leave of absence </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   22.*2* (1) Subject to section 87E of the Public Service Act 1922, the Clerk has such recreation leave entitlements as are determined by the Remuneration Tribunal. 

<lf>   (2) The High Court may grant the Clerk leave of absence, other than recreation leave, on such terms and conditions as to remuneration or otherwise as the Court determines. *2* Sections 4, 18-26, 28, 30, 33, 41 and 45 are amended by sections 27-34 only of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993\. Sections 28-34 provide as follows:<lf> Interpretation<lf>   28\. Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by inserting "appointed under subsection 26 (1)" after "Court" in the definitions of "Deputy Registrar", "Deputy Marshal" and "Marshal" in subsection (1);<lf>   (b) by omitting from subsection (1) the definitions of "Clerk" and "Registrar";<lf>   (c) by inserting in subsection (1) the following definitions:<lf>   "'Chief Executive and Principal Registrar' means the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar of the Court appointed under section 18;<lf>   "'Senior Registrar' means the Senior Registrar of the Court appointed under subsection 26 (1).".<lf> Changing references to Clerk to references to Chief Executive and Principal Registrar<lf>   29\. The following provisions of the Principal Act are amended by omitting "Clerk" (wherever occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar":<lf>   Section 18; subsections 19 (1), (2), (3) and (7); section 20; subsections 21 (1), (2) and (4); sections 22 and 23; subsections 24 (1) and (2); subsections 25 (1), (3), (4), (5) and (6); subsections 26 (3) and (6); sections 41 and 45.<lf> Officers and employees<lf>   30\. Section 26 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by omitting subsections (1) and (2) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(1) The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar is to appoint such other officers of the High Court as the Court considers necessary.";<lf>   (b) by omitting subsection (5) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(5) An appointment under subsection (1) is not a public office for the purposes of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973.";<lf>   (c) by omitting subsection (7) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(7) The Senior Registrar and Deputy Registrars are to perform such duties in respect of proceedings in the Court as are assigned to them by Rules of Court, by an order of the Court or by the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.".<lf> Certain officers may administer oaths and affirmations<lf>   31\. Section 28 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting "The Registrar," and substituting "The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar, the Senior Registrar,".<lf> Registry<lf>   32\. Section 30 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subsection (2) "Registrar" and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Writs etc.<lf>   33\. Section 33 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subparagraph (c) (i) "Registrar" (twice occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Transitional<lf>   34\. (1) To avoid doubt, section 29 is taken (in particular, for the purposes of section 25B of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901) to have altered the name of the office established by section 18 of the Principal Act.<lf>   (2) In any Act, in any instrument under an Act, in any award or other industrial determination or order or any industrial agreement, in any other order (whether executive, judicial or otherwise), in any contract, in any pleading in, or process issued in connection with, any legal or other proceedings, or in any other instrument, a reference to the Registrar of the High Court is taken, except in relation to matters that occurred before the commencement of this Part, to be a reference to the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.<lf>   (3) The person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office as the Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act:<lf>   (a) is taken to have been appointed at that commencement as the Senior Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as amended by this Division; and<lf>   (b) subject to subsection 26 (4) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement, holds office as the Senior Registrar on the terms and conditions on which he or she held office as the Registrar immediately before that commencement.<lf>   (4) Any other person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act continues to hold office after that commencement as if he or she had been appointed to that office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement.<lf>   Subsections 2 (3) and (4) of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993 provide as follows:<lf>   "(3) Subject to subsection (4), Part 6 commences on a day to be fixed by Proclamation.<lf>   "(4) If Part 6 does not commence under subsection (3) within the period of 6 months beginning on the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent, it commences on the first day after the end of that period."<lf>   As at 1 March 1994 no date had been fixed and the amendments are not incorporated in this reprint. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 23 Resignation </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   23.*2* The Clerk may resign his office by writing signed by him and delivered to the Governor-General. *2* Sections 4, 18-26, 28, 30, 33, 41 and 45 are amended by sections 27-34 only of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993\. Sections 28-34 provide as follows:<lf> Interpretation<lf>   28\. Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by inserting "appointed under subsection 26 (1)" after "Court" in the definitions of "Deputy Registrar", "Deputy Marshal" and "Marshal" in subsection (1);<lf>   (b) by omitting from subsection (1) the definitions of "Clerk" and "Registrar";<lf>   (c) by inserting in subsection (1) the following definitions:<lf>   "'Chief Executive and Principal Registrar' means the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar of the Court appointed under section 18;<lf>   "'Senior Registrar' means the Senior Registrar of the Court appointed under subsection 26 (1).".<lf> Changing references to Clerk to references to Chief Executive and Principal Registrar<lf>   29\. The following provisions of the Principal Act are amended by omitting "Clerk" (wherever occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar":<lf>   Section 18; subsections 19 (1), (2), (3) and (7); section 20; subsections 21 (1), (2) and (4); sections 22 and 23; subsections 24 (1) and (2); subsections 25 (1), (3), (4), (5) and (6); subsections 26 (3) and (6); sections 41 and 45.<lf> Officers and employees<lf>   30\. Section 26 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by omitting subsections (1) and (2) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(1) The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar is to appoint such other officers of the High Court as the Court considers necessary.";<lf>   (b) by omitting subsection (5) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(5) An appointment under subsection (1) is not a public office for the purposes of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973.";<lf>   (c) by omitting subsection (7) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(7) The Senior Registrar and Deputy Registrars are to perform such duties in respect of proceedings in the Court as are assigned to them by Rules of Court, by an order of the Court or by the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.".<lf> Certain officers may administer oaths and affirmations<lf>   31\. Section 28 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting "The Registrar," and substituting "The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar, the Senior Registrar,".<lf> Registry<lf>   32\. Section 30 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subsection (2) "Registrar" and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Writs etc.<lf>   33\. Section 33 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subparagraph (c) (i) "Registrar" (twice occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Transitional<lf>   34\. (1) To avoid doubt, section 29 is taken (in particular, for the purposes of section 25B of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901) to have altered the name of the office established by section 18 of the Principal Act.<lf>   (2) In any Act, in any instrument under an Act, in any award or other industrial determination or order or any industrial agreement, in any other order (whether executive, judicial or otherwise), in any contract, in any pleading in, or process issued in connection with, any legal or other proceedings, or in any other instrument, a reference to the Registrar of the High Court is taken, except in relation to matters that occurred before the commencement of this Part, to be a reference to the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.<lf>   (3) The person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office as the Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act:<lf>   (a) is taken to have been appointed at that commencement as the Senior Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as amended by this Division; and<lf>   (b) subject to subsection 26 (4) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement, holds office as the Senior Registrar on the terms and conditions on which he or she held office as the Registrar immediately before that commencement.<lf>   (4) Any other person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act continues to hold office after that commencement as if he or she had been appointed to that office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement.<lf>   Subsections 2 (3) and (4) of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993 provide as follows:<lf>   "(3) Subject to subsection (4), Part 6 commences on a day to be fixed by Proclamation.<lf>   "(4) If Part 6 does not commence under subsection (3) within the period of 6 months beginning on the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent, it commences on the first day after the end of that period."<lf>   As at 1 March 1994 no date had been fixed and the amendments are not incorporated in this reprint. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 24 Termination of appointment </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   24.*2* (1) The Governor-General may terminate the appointment of the Clerk by reason of the misbehaviour or the physical or mental incapacity of the Clerk. 

<lf>   (2) If the Clerk:<lf>   (a) becomes bankrupt, applies to take the benefit of any law for the relief of bankrupt or insolvent debtors, compounds with his creditors or makes an assignment of his remuneration for their benefit;<lf>   (b) is absent from duty, except with leave of absence, for 14 consecutive days or for 28 days in any 12 months; or<lf>   (c) without the approval of the Court, engages in paid employment outside the duties of his office;<lf> the Governor-General shall terminate the appointment of the Clerk. <p><lf>   (3) The powers of the Governor-General under subsection (1) shall be exercised only in accordance with advice that is consistent with recommendations by the Court. *2* Sections 4, 18-26, 28, 30, 33, 41 and 45 are amended by sections 27-34 only of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993\. Sections 28-34 provide as follows:<lf> Interpretation<lf>   28\. Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by inserting "appointed under subsection 26 (1)" after "Court" in the definitions of "Deputy Registrar", "Deputy Marshal" and "Marshal" in subsection (1);<lf>   (b) by omitting from subsection (1) the definitions of "Clerk" and "Registrar";<lf>   (c) by inserting in subsection (1) the following definitions:<lf>   "'Chief Executive and Principal Registrar' means the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar of the Court appointed under section 18;<lf>   "'Senior Registrar' means the Senior Registrar of the Court appointed under subsection 26 (1).".<lf> Changing references to Clerk to references to Chief Executive and Principal Registrar<lf>   29\. The following provisions of the Principal Act are amended by omitting "Clerk" (wherever occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar":<lf>   Section 18; subsections 19 (1), (2), (3) and (7); section 20; subsections 21 (1), (2) and (4); sections 22 and 23; subsections 24 (1) and (2); subsections 25 (1), (3), (4), (5) and (6); subsections 26 (3) and (6); sections 41 and 45.<lf> Officers and employees<lf>   30\. Section 26 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by omitting subsections (1) and (2) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(1) The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar is to appoint such other officers of the High Court as the Court considers necessary.";<lf>   (b) by omitting subsection (5) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(5) An appointment under subsection (1) is not a public office for the purposes of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973.";<lf>   (c) by omitting subsection (7) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(7) The Senior Registrar and Deputy Registrars are to perform such duties in respect of proceedings in the Court as are assigned to them by Rules of Court, by an order of the Court or by the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.".<lf> Certain officers may administer oaths and affirmations<lf>   31\. Section 28 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting "The Registrar," and substituting "The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar, the Senior Registrar,".<lf> Registry<lf>   32\. Section 30 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subsection (2) "Registrar" and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Writs etc.<lf>   33\. Section 33 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subparagraph (c) (i) "Registrar" (twice occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Transitional<lf>   34\. (1) To avoid doubt, section 29 is taken (in particular, for the purposes of section 25B of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901) to have altered the name of the office established by section 18 of the Principal Act.<lf>   (2) In any Act, in any instrument under an Act, in any award or other industrial determination or order or any industrial agreement, in any other order (whether executive, judicial or otherwise), in any contract, in any pleading in, or process issued in connection with, any legal or other proceedings, or in any other instrument, a reference to the Registrar of the High Court is taken, except in relation to matters that occurred before the commencement of this Part, to be a reference to the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.<lf>   (3) The person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office as the Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act:<lf>   (a) is taken to have been appointed at that commencement as the Senior Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as amended by this Division; and<lf>   (b) subject to subsection 26 (4) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement, holds office as the Senior Registrar on the terms and conditions on which he or she held office as the Registrar immediately before that commencement.<lf>   (4) Any other person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act continues to hold office after that commencement as if he or she had been appointed to that office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement.<lf>   Subsections 2 (3) and (4) of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993 provide as follows:<lf>   "(3) Subject to subsection (4), Part 6 commences on a day to be fixed by Proclamation.<lf>   "(4) If Part 6 does not commence under subsection (3) within the period of 6 months beginning on the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent, it commences on the first day after the end of that period."<lf>   As at 1 March 1994 no date had been fixed and the amendments are not incorporated in this reprint. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 25 Acting Clerk </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   25.*2* (1) The High Court may appoint a person to act as Clerk:<lf>   (a) during a vacancy in the office of Clerk, whether or not an appointment has previously been made to the office; or<lf>   (b) during any period, or during all periods, when the Clerk is absent from duty or from Australia or is, for any other reason, unable to perform the duties of his office;<lf> but a person appointed to act during a vacancy shall not continue so to act for more than 12 months. 

<lf>   (2) An appointment of a person under subsection (1) may be expressed to have effect only in such circumstances as are specified in the instrument of his appointment. <p><lf>   (3) The Court may:<lf>   (a) with the concurrence of the Public Service Board, determine the terms and conditions of appointment, including remuneration and allowances, of a person acting as Clerk; and<lf>   (b) terminate such an appointment at any time. <p><lf>   (4) Where a person is acting as Clerk in accordance with paragraph (1) (b) and the office of Clerk becomes vacant while that person is so acting, then, subject to subsection (2), that person may continue so to act until the Court otherwise directs, the vacancy is filled or a period of 12 months from the date on which the vacancy occurred expires, whichever first happens. <p><lf>   (5) The appointment of a person to act as Clerk ceases to have effect if he resigns his office by writing signed by him and delivered to the Chief Justice. <p><lf>   (6) While a person is acting as Clerk, he has and may exercise all the powers of, and shall perform all the functions of, the Clerk under this Act or any other law. <p><lf>   (7) The validity of anything done by a person purporting to act under subsection (1) shall not be called in question on the ground that the occasion for his appointment had not arisen, that there is a defect or irregularity in or in connection with his appointment, that the appointment had ceased to have effect or that the occasion for him to act had not arisen or had passed. *2* Sections 4, 18-26, 28, 30, 33, 41 and 45 are amended by sections 27-34 only of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993\. Sections 28-34 provide as follows:<lf> Interpretation<lf>   28\. Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by inserting "appointed under subsection 26 (1)" after "Court" in the definitions of "Deputy Registrar", "Deputy Marshal" and "Marshal" in subsection (1);<lf>   (b) by omitting from subsection (1) the definitions of "Clerk" and "Registrar";<lf>   (c) by inserting in subsection (1) the following definitions:<lf>   "'Chief Executive and Principal Registrar' means the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar of the Court appointed under section 18;<lf>   "'Senior Registrar' means the Senior Registrar of the Court appointed under subsection 26 (1).".<lf> Changing references to Clerk to references to Chief Executive and Principal Registrar<lf>   29\. The following provisions of the Principal Act are amended by omitting "Clerk" (wherever occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar":<lf>   Section 18; subsections 19 (1), (2), (3) and (7); section 20; subsections 21 (1), (2) and (4); sections 22 and 23; subsections 24 (1) and (2); subsections 25 (1), (3), (4), (5) and (6); subsections 26 (3) and (6); sections 41 and 45.<lf> Officers and employees<lf>   30\. Section 26 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by omitting subsections (1) and (2) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(1) The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar is to appoint such other officers of the High Court as the Court considers necessary.";<lf>   (b) by omitting subsection (5) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(5) An appointment under subsection (1) is not a public office for the purposes of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973.";<lf>   (c) by omitting subsection (7) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(7) The Senior Registrar and Deputy Registrars are to perform such duties in respect of proceedings in the Court as are assigned to them by Rules of Court, by an order of the Court or by the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.".<lf> Certain officers may administer oaths and affirmations<lf>   31\. Section 28 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting "The Registrar," and substituting "The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar, the Senior Registrar,".<lf> Registry<lf>   32\. Section 30 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subsection (2) "Registrar" and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Writs etc.<lf>   33\. Section 33 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subparagraph (c) (i) "Registrar" (twice occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Transitional<lf>   34\. (1) To avoid doubt, section 29 is taken (in particular, for the purposes of section 25B of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901) to have altered the name of the office established by section 18 of the Principal Act.<lf>   (2) In any Act, in any instrument under an Act, in any award or other industrial determination or order or any industrial agreement, in any other order (whether executive, judicial or otherwise), in any contract, in any pleading in, or process issued in connection with, any legal or other proceedings, or in any other instrument, a reference to the Registrar of the High Court is taken, except in relation to matters that occurred before the commencement of this Part, to be a reference to the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.<lf>   (3) The person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office as the Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act:<lf>   (a) is taken to have been appointed at that commencement as the Senior Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as amended by this Division; and<lf>   (b) subject to subsection 26 (4) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement, holds office as the Senior Registrar on the terms and conditions on which he or she held office as the Registrar immediately before that commencement.<lf>   (4) Any other person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act continues to hold office after that commencement as if he or she had been appointed to that office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement.<lf>   Subsections 2 (3) and (4) of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993 provide as follows:<lf>   "(3) Subject to subsection (4), Part 6 commences on a day to be fixed by Proclamation.<lf>   "(4) If Part 6 does not commence under subsection (3) within the period of 6 months beginning on the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent, it commences on the first day after the end of that period."<lf>   As at 1 March 1994 no date had been fixed and the amendments are not incorporated in this reprint. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></lf></lf></p></lf>
</lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 26 Officers and employees </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   26.*2* (1) In addition to the Clerk, there shall be the following officers of the High Court:<lf>   (a) a Registrar and such Deputy Registrars as the Court deems necessary; and<lf>   (b) a Marshal and such Deputy Marshals as the Court deems necessary. 

<lf>   (2) The officers referred to in paragraphs (1) (a) and (b) shall be appointed by the Clerk. <p><lf>   (3) The Clerk may engage such employees as the Court considers necessary for the purposes of the Court. <p><lf>   (4) The terms and conditions of employment (including terms and conditions as to remuneration and allowances) of officers or employees appointed or engaged in accordance with this section are such as are determined by the Court. <p><lf>   (5) The offices of Registrar, Deputy Registrar, Marshal and Deputy Marshal are not public offices for the purposes of Part II of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973\. <p><lf>   (6) The Clerk may, on behalf of the Court, arrange with the Secretary of a Department of the Australian Public Service, or with an authority of the Commonwealth, for the services of officers or employees of the Department or of the authority, as the case may be, to be made available for the purposes of the Court. <p><lf>   (7) The Deputy Registrars shall perform such duties in respect of any proceedings pending in the Court as are assigned to them by Rules of Court, by any order of the Court or by the Registrar. *2* Sections 4, 18-26, 28, 30, 33, 41 and 45 are amended by sections 27-34 only of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993\. Sections 28-34 provide as follows:<lf> Interpretation<lf>   28\. Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by inserting "appointed under subsection 26 (1)" after "Court" in the definitions of "Deputy Registrar", "Deputy Marshal" and "Marshal" in subsection (1);<lf>   (b) by omitting from subsection (1) the definitions of "Clerk" and "Registrar";<lf>   (c) by inserting in subsection (1) the following definitions:<lf>   "'Chief Executive and Principal Registrar' means the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar of the Court appointed under section 18;<lf>   "'Senior Registrar' means the Senior Registrar of the Court appointed under subsection 26 (1).".<lf> Changing references to Clerk to references to Chief Executive and Principal Registrar<lf>   29\. The following provisions of the Principal Act are amended by omitting "Clerk" (wherever occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar":<lf>   Section 18; subsections 19 (1), (2), (3) and (7); section 20; subsections 21 (1), (2) and (4); sections 22 and 23; subsections 24 (1) and (2); subsections 25 (1), (3), (4), (5) and (6); subsections 26 (3) and (6); sections 41 and 45.<lf> Officers and employees<lf>   30\. Section 26 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by omitting subsections (1) and (2) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(1) The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar is to appoint such other officers of the High Court as the Court considers necessary.";<lf>   (b) by omitting subsection (5) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(5) An appointment under subsection (1) is not a public office for the purposes of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973.";<lf>   (c) by omitting subsection (7) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(7) The Senior Registrar and Deputy Registrars are to perform such duties in respect of proceedings in the Court as are assigned to them by Rules of Court, by an order of the Court or by the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.".<lf> Certain officers may administer oaths and affirmations<lf>   31\. Section 28 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting "The Registrar," and substituting "The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar, the Senior Registrar,".<lf> Registry<lf>   32\. Section 30 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subsection (2) "Registrar" and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Writs etc.<lf>   33\. Section 33 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subparagraph (c) (i) "Registrar" (twice occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Transitional<lf>   34\. (1) To avoid doubt, section 29 is taken (in particular, for the purposes of section 25B of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901) to have altered the name of the office established by section 18 of the Principal Act.<lf>   (2) In any Act, in any instrument under an Act, in any award or other industrial determination or order or any industrial agreement, in any other order (whether executive, judicial or otherwise), in any contract, in any pleading in, or process issued in connection with, any legal or other proceedings, or in any other instrument, a reference to the Registrar of the High Court is taken, except in relation to matters that occurred before the commencement of this Part, to be a reference to the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.<lf>   (3) The person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office as the Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act:<lf>   (a) is taken to have been appointed at that commencement as the Senior Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as amended by this Division; and<lf>   (b) subject to subsection 26 (4) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement, holds office as the Senior Registrar on the terms and conditions on which he or she held office as the Registrar immediately before that commencement.<lf>   (4) Any other person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act continues to hold office after that commencement as if he or she had been appointed to that office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement.<lf>   Subsections 2 (3) and (4) of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993 provide as follows:<lf>   "(3) Subject to subsection (4), Part 6 commences on a day to be fixed by Proclamation.<lf>   "(4) If Part 6 does not commence under subsection (3) within the period of 6 months beginning on the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent, it commences on the first day after the end of that period."<lf>   As at 1 March 1994 no date had been fixed and the amendments are not incorporated in this reprint. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf>
</lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 27 Marshal and Deputy Marshals </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   27\. (1) The Marshal:<lf>   (a) is charged with the service and execution of all writs, summonses, orders, warrants, precepts, process and commands of the Court that are directed to him; and<lf>   (b) shall take, receive and detain all persons who are committed to his custody by the Court, and shall discharge all such persons when directed by the Court or otherwise required by law. 

<lf>   (2) A Deputy Marshal may, subject to any directions of the Marshal, exercise any power or perform any function of the Marshal. <p><lf>   (3) The Marshal or a Deputy Marshal may authorize such persons as he thinks fit to assist him in the exercise of any power or performance of any function by him, and any act done by a person so appointed shall be deemed to be done by and under the authority of the Marshal or Deputy Marshal, as the case may be. <p><lf>   (4) If the Marshal or a Deputy Marshal is a party to a proceeding in the Court, all writs, summonses, orders, warrants, precepts, process and commands in the proceeding that should, in the ordinary course, be directed to the Marshal or Deputy Marshal shall be directed to such disinterested person as the Court appoints, and the person so appointed may execute and return them. <p><lf>   (5) The Minister may arrange with the appropriate Minister of a State or of the Northern Territory for an officer or officers of that State or Territory to perform the functions of a Deputy Marshal in that State or Territory. <p><lf>   (6) A copy of an arrangement made under subsection (5) shall be published in the Gazette. </lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf>
</lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 28 Registrar and Deputy Registrars may administer oaths and affirmations </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   28.*2* The Registrar, the Deputy Registrars and any other persons authorized by Rules of Court may administer oaths and affirmations for the purposes of any proceedings in the Court. *2* Sections 4, 18-26, 28, 30, 33, 41 and 45 are amended by sections 27-34 only of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993\. Sections 28-34 provide as follows:<lf> Interpretation<lf>   28\. Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by inserting "appointed under subsection 26 (1)" after "Court" in the definitions of "Deputy Registrar", "Deputy Marshal" and "Marshal" in subsection (1);<lf>   (b) by omitting from subsection (1) the definitions of "Clerk" and "Registrar";<lf>   (c) by inserting in subsection (1) the following definitions:<lf>   "'Chief Executive and Principal Registrar' means the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar of the Court appointed under section 18;<lf>   "'Senior Registrar' means the Senior Registrar of the Court appointed under subsection 26 (1).".<lf> Changing references to Clerk to references to Chief Executive and Principal Registrar<lf>   29\. The following provisions of the Principal Act are amended by omitting "Clerk" (wherever occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar":<lf>   Section 18; subsections 19 (1), (2), (3) and (7); section 20; subsections 21 (1), (2) and (4); sections 22 and 23; subsections 24 (1) and (2); subsections 25 (1), (3), (4), (5) and (6); subsections 26 (3) and (6); sections 41 and 45.<lf> Officers and employees<lf>   30\. Section 26 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by omitting subsections (1) and (2) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(1) The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar is to appoint such other officers of the High Court as the Court considers necessary.";<lf>   (b) by omitting subsection (5) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(5) An appointment under subsection (1) is not a public office for the purposes of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973.";<lf>   (c) by omitting subsection (7) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(7) The Senior Registrar and Deputy Registrars are to perform such duties in respect of proceedings in the Court as are assigned to them by Rules of Court, by an order of the Court or by the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.".<lf> Certain officers may administer oaths and affirmations<lf>   31\. Section 28 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting "The Registrar," and substituting "The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar, the Senior Registrar,".<lf> Registry<lf>   32\. Section 30 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subsection (2) "Registrar" and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Writs etc.<lf>   33\. Section 33 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subparagraph (c) (i) "Registrar" (twice occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Transitional<lf>   34\. (1) To avoid doubt, section 29 is taken (in particular, for the purposes of section 25B of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901) to have altered the name of the office established by section 18 of the Principal Act.<lf>   (2) In any Act, in any instrument under an Act, in any award or other industrial determination or order or any industrial agreement, in any other order (whether executive, judicial or otherwise), in any contract, in any pleading in, or process issued in connection with, any legal or other proceedings, or in any other instrument, a reference to the Registrar of the High Court is taken, except in relation to matters that occurred before the commencement of this Part, to be a reference to the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.<lf>   (3) The person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office as the Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act:<lf>   (a) is taken to have been appointed at that commencement as the Senior Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as amended by this Division; and<lf>   (b) subject to subsection 26 (4) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement, holds office as the Senior Registrar on the terms and conditions on which he or she held office as the Registrar immediately before that commencement.<lf>   (4) Any other person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act continues to hold office after that commencement as if he or she had been appointed to that office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement.<lf>   Subsections 2 (3) and (4) of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993 provide as follows:<lf>   "(3) Subject to subsection (4), Part 6 commences on a day to be fixed by Proclamation.<lf>   "(4) If Part 6 does not commence under subsection (3) within the period of 6 months beginning on the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent, it commences on the first day after the end of that period."<lf>   As at 1 March 1994 no date had been fixed and the amendments are not incorporated in this reprint. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - PART IV  PART IV - REGISTRY AND PROCEDURE </name>
</b>** 
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 30 Registry </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   30.*2* (1) There shall be a Registry of the High Court, which shall be at the seat of the Court. 

<lf>   (2) The Registry shall be under the control of the Registrar. <p><lf>   (3) There shall be an office of the Registry at the seat of the Court, at the capital city of each State, at Darwin in the Northern Territory and at such other places as the Court deems necessary. <p><lf>   (4) The Minister may arrange with the appropriate Minister of a State or of the Northern Territory for an officer or officers of that State or Territory to perform on behalf of the Court at any office in that State or Territory of the Registry of the Court all or any of the functions referred to in subsection (6). <p><lf>   (5) The Chief Justice may arrange with the Chief Judge of the Federal Court of Australia for an officer or officers of the Federal Court of Australia to perform on behalf of the High Court at an office or offices of the Registry of the High Court referred to in the arrangement all or any of the functions referred to in subsection (6). <p><lf>   (6) The functions to which an arrangement under subsection (4) or (5) may relate are:<lf>   (a) the receipt of documents to be lodged with or filed in the High Court;<lf>   (b) the signing and issuing of writs, commissions and process;<lf>   (c) the administration of oaths and affirmations for the purposes of any proceedings in the High Court; and<lf>   (d) such other functions as are permitted by Rules of Court to be performed in pursuance of such an arrangement. <p><lf>   (7) Documents received at any office of the Registry for lodgment with or filing in the Court shall be deemed to be received at the Registry. <p><lf>   (8) A copy of an arrangement made under subsection (4) or (5) shall be published in the Gazette. <p><lf>   (9) Where an office of the Registry is established at a place not specifically mentioned in subsection (3), a notice stating that an office of the Registry has been established at that place shall be published in the Gazette. *2* Sections 4, 18-26, 28, 30, 33, 41 and 45 are amended by sections 27-34 only of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993\. Sections 28-34 provide as follows:<lf> Interpretation<lf>   28\. Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by inserting "appointed under subsection 26 (1)" after "Court" in the definitions of "Deputy Registrar", "Deputy Marshal" and "Marshal" in subsection (1);<lf>   (b) by omitting from subsection (1) the definitions of "Clerk" and "Registrar";<lf>   (c) by inserting in subsection (1) the following definitions:<lf>   "'Chief Executive and Principal Registrar' means the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar of the Court appointed under section 18;<lf>   "'Senior Registrar' means the Senior Registrar of the Court appointed under subsection 26 (1).".<lf> Changing references to Clerk to references to Chief Executive and Principal Registrar<lf>   29\. The following provisions of the Principal Act are amended by omitting "Clerk" (wherever occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar":<lf>   Section 18; subsections 19 (1), (2), (3) and (7); section 20; subsections 21 (1), (2) and (4); sections 22 and 23; subsections 24 (1) and (2); subsections 25 (1), (3), (4), (5) and (6); subsections 26 (3) and (6); sections 41 and 45.<lf> Officers and employees<lf>   30\. Section 26 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by omitting subsections (1) and (2) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(1) The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar is to appoint such other officers of the High Court as the Court considers necessary.";<lf>   (b) by omitting subsection (5) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(5) An appointment under subsection (1) is not a public office for the purposes of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973.";<lf>   (c) by omitting subsection (7) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(7) The Senior Registrar and Deputy Registrars are to perform such duties in respect of proceedings in the Court as are assigned to them by Rules of Court, by an order of the Court or by the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.".<lf> Certain officers may administer oaths and affirmations<lf>   31\. Section 28 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting "The Registrar," and substituting "The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar, the Senior Registrar,".<lf> Registry<lf>   32\. Section 30 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subsection (2) "Registrar" and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Writs etc.<lf>   33\. Section 33 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subparagraph (c) (i) "Registrar" (twice occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Transitional<lf>   34\. (1) To avoid doubt, section 29 is taken (in particular, for the purposes of section 25B of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901) to have altered the name of the office established by section 18 of the Principal Act.<lf>   (2) In any Act, in any instrument under an Act, in any award or other industrial determination or order or any industrial agreement, in any other order (whether executive, judicial or otherwise), in any contract, in any pleading in, or process issued in connection with, any legal or other proceedings, or in any other instrument, a reference to the Registrar of the High Court is taken, except in relation to matters that occurred before the commencement of this Part, to be a reference to the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.<lf>   (3) The person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office as the Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act:<lf>   (a) is taken to have been appointed at that commencement as the Senior Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as amended by this Division; and<lf>   (b) subject to subsection 26 (4) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement, holds office as the Senior Registrar on the terms and conditions on which he or she held office as the Registrar immediately before that commencement.<lf>   (4) Any other person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act continues to hold office after that commencement as if he or she had been appointed to that office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement.<lf>   Subsections 2 (3) and (4) of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993 provide as follows:<lf>   "(3) Subject to subsection (4), Part 6 commences on a day to be fixed by Proclamation.<lf>   "(4) If Part 6 does not commence under subsection (3) within the period of 6 months beginning on the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent, it commences on the first day after the end of that period."<lf>   As at 1 March 1994 no date had been fixed and the amendments are not incorporated in this reprint. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 31 Transfer of proceedings </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   31\. (1) Subject to section 80 of the Constitution, the High Court may, at any stage of a proceeding, direct that the proceeding or a part of the proceeding be held or continued at a place specified in the order, subject to such conditions (if any) as the Court imposes. 

<lf>   (2) The Rules of Court may make provision for the transmission of documents between offices of the Registry of the Court, including transmission by telegraph, telex or any similar means of communication. </lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 32 Seals </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   32\. (1) The High Court shall have a seal on which are inscribed the words "The Seal of the High Court of Australia". 

<lf>   (2) A duplicate of the seal of the Court shall be kept at each office of the Registry of the Court. <p><lf>   (3) Such other seals as are required for the business of the Court shall be kept and used at each office of the Registry and shall be in such form and kept in such custody as the Chief Justice directs. <p><lf>   (4) A document, a copy of a document or an exemplification purporting to be sealed with the seal of the High Court or a duplicate of that seal, or with a seal referred to in subsection (3), is receivable in evidence without further proof of the seal. </lf></p></lf></p></lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 33 Writs etc. </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   33.*2* All writs, commissions and process issued from the High Court shall be:<lf>   (a) in the name of the Queen;<lf>   (b) under the seal of the Court or a duplicate of that seal or such other seal as is prescribed by Rules of Court; and<lf>   (c) signed by:<lf>     (i) the Registrar or an officer acting with the<lf> authority of the Registrar; or<lf>     (ii) an officer authorized by an arrangement in force<lf> under subsection 30 (4) or (5) or a person acting with the authority of such an officer. *2* Sections 4, 18-26, 28, 30, 33, 41 and 45 are amended by sections 27-34 only of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993\. Sections 28-34 provide as follows:<lf> Interpretation<lf>   28\. Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by inserting "appointed under subsection 26 (1)" after "Court" in the definitions of "Deputy Registrar", "Deputy Marshal" and "Marshal" in subsection (1);<lf>   (b) by omitting from subsection (1) the definitions of "Clerk" and "Registrar";<lf>   (c) by inserting in subsection (1) the following definitions:<lf>   "'Chief Executive and Principal Registrar' means the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar of the Court appointed under section 18;<lf>   "'Senior Registrar' means the Senior Registrar of the Court appointed under subsection 26 (1).".<lf> Changing references to Clerk to references to Chief Executive and Principal Registrar<lf>   29\. The following provisions of the Principal Act are amended by omitting "Clerk" (wherever occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar":<lf>   Section 18; subsections 19 (1), (2), (3) and (7); section 20; subsections 21 (1), (2) and (4); sections 22 and 23; subsections 24 (1) and (2); subsections 25 (1), (3), (4), (5) and (6); subsections 26 (3) and (6); sections 41 and 45.<lf> Officers and employees<lf>   30\. Section 26 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by omitting subsections (1) and (2) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(1) The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar is to appoint such other officers of the High Court as the Court considers necessary.";<lf>   (b) by omitting subsection (5) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(5) An appointment under subsection (1) is not a public office for the purposes of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973.";<lf>   (c) by omitting subsection (7) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(7) The Senior Registrar and Deputy Registrars are to perform such duties in respect of proceedings in the Court as are assigned to them by Rules of Court, by an order of the Court or by the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.".<lf> Certain officers may administer oaths and affirmations<lf>   31\. Section 28 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting "The Registrar," and substituting "The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar, the Senior Registrar,".<lf> Registry<lf>   32\. Section 30 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subsection (2) "Registrar" and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Writs etc.<lf>   33\. Section 33 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subparagraph (c) (i) "Registrar" (twice occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Transitional<lf>   34\. (1) To avoid doubt, section 29 is taken (in particular, for the purposes of section 25B of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901) to have altered the name of the office established by section 18 of the Principal Act.<lf>   (2) In any Act, in any instrument under an Act, in any award or other industrial determination or order or any industrial agreement, in any other order (whether executive, judicial or otherwise), in any contract, in any pleading in, or process issued in connection with, any legal or other proceedings, or in any other instrument, a reference to the Registrar of the High Court is taken, except in relation to matters that occurred before the commencement of this Part, to be a reference to the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.<lf>   (3) The person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office as the Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act:<lf>   (a) is taken to have been appointed at that commencement as the Senior Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as amended by this Division; and<lf>   (b) subject to subsection 26 (4) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement, holds office as the Senior Registrar on the terms and conditions on which he or she held office as the Registrar immediately before that commencement.<lf>   (4) Any other person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act continues to hold office after that commencement as if he or she had been appointed to that office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement.<lf>   Subsections 2 (3) and (4) of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993 provide as follows:<lf>   "(3) Subject to subsection (4), Part 6 commences on a day to be fixed by Proclamation.<lf>   "(4) If Part 6 does not commence under subsection (3) within the period of 6 months beginning on the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent, it commences on the first day after the end of that period."<lf>   As at 1 March 1994 no date had been fixed and the amendments are not incorporated in this reprint. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 34 Date of process </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   34\. All writs, commissions and process issued from the High Court shall be dated as of the day on which they are issued. </sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - PART V  PART V - FINANCE </name>
</b>** 
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 35 Moneys appropriated for the Court </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   35\. (1) There are payable to the High Court such moneys as are appropriated by the Parliament for the purposes of the Court. 

<lf>   (2) The Minister for Finance may give directions as to the amounts in which, and the times at which, moneys referred to in subsection (1) are to be paid to the Court. </lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 36 Estimates </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   36\. (1) The High Court shall prepare estimates, in such form as the Minister approves, of receipts and expenditure in respect of the administration of the affairs of the Court under section 17 for each financial year and, if so requested by the Minister, for any other period, and shall submit estimates so prepared to the Minister not later than such date as the Minister specifies. 

<lf>   (2) Moneys paid to the Court under section 35 shall not be expended otherwise than in accordance with the estimates of expenditure approved by the Minister. </lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 37 Application of moneys appropriated for the Court </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   37\. Moneys paid to the High Court under section 35 shall be applied only:<lf>   (a) in payment or discharge of the costs and expenses of the administration of the affairs of the Court under section 17; and<lf>   (b) in payment of any remuneration and allowances payable under this Act to any person other than a Justice. </lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 38 Trust moneys </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   38\. (1) A separate account or separate accounts shall be kept in the books of the High Court in respect of moneys held by the Court upon trust. 

<lf>   (2) Any moneys or other property held by the Court upon trust shall be dealt with in accordance with the powers and duties of the Court as trustee. </lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 39 Other moneys </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   39\. (1) Any moneys held by the Court other than:<lf>   (a) moneys held by the Court upon trust; and<lf>   (b) moneys paid to the Court under section 35;<lf> may be expended for the purposes of the Court. 

<lf>   (2) Moneys to which subsection (1) applies that are not immediately required to be expended may be invested:<lf>   (a) on deposit with an approved bank;<lf>   (b) in securities of the Commonwealth; or<lf>   (c) in any other manner approved by the Treasurer. </lf></lf></lf></lf>
</lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 40 Limitation on contracts </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   40\. The High Court shall not, except with the approval of the Minister, enter into a contract under which the Court is to pay or to receive an amount exceeding $250,000 or, if a higher amount is prescribed, that higher amount. </sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 41 Bank accounts </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   41.*2* (1) The Clerk may, on behalf of and in the name of the High Court, open and maintain an account or accounts with an approved bank or approved banks and shall maintain at all times at least one such account. 

<lf>   (2) The Clerk shall pay all moneys received by the Court into an account referred to in this section. *2* Sections 4, 18-26, 28, 30, 33, 41 and 45 are amended by sections 27-34 only of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993\. Sections 28-34 provide as follows:<lf> Interpretation<lf>   28\. Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by inserting "appointed under subsection 26 (1)" after "Court" in the definitions of "Deputy Registrar", "Deputy Marshal" and "Marshal" in subsection (1);<lf>   (b) by omitting from subsection (1) the definitions of "Clerk" and "Registrar";<lf>   (c) by inserting in subsection (1) the following definitions:<lf>   "'Chief Executive and Principal Registrar' means the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar of the Court appointed under section 18;<lf>   "'Senior Registrar' means the Senior Registrar of the Court appointed under subsection 26 (1).".<lf> Changing references to Clerk to references to Chief Executive and Principal Registrar<lf>   29\. The following provisions of the Principal Act are amended by omitting "Clerk" (wherever occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar":<lf>   Section 18; subsections 19 (1), (2), (3) and (7); section 20; subsections 21 (1), (2) and (4); sections 22 and 23; subsections 24 (1) and (2); subsections 25 (1), (3), (4), (5) and (6); subsections 26 (3) and (6); sections 41 and 45.<lf> Officers and employees<lf>   30\. Section 26 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by omitting subsections (1) and (2) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(1) The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar is to appoint such other officers of the High Court as the Court considers necessary.";<lf>   (b) by omitting subsection (5) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(5) An appointment under subsection (1) is not a public office for the purposes of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973.";<lf>   (c) by omitting subsection (7) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(7) The Senior Registrar and Deputy Registrars are to perform such duties in respect of proceedings in the Court as are assigned to them by Rules of Court, by an order of the Court or by the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.".<lf> Certain officers may administer oaths and affirmations<lf>   31\. Section 28 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting "The Registrar," and substituting "The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar, the Senior Registrar,".<lf> Registry<lf>   32\. Section 30 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subsection (2) "Registrar" and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Writs etc.<lf>   33\. Section 33 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subparagraph (c) (i) "Registrar" (twice occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Transitional<lf>   34\. (1) To avoid doubt, section 29 is taken (in particular, for the purposes of section 25B of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901) to have altered the name of the office established by section 18 of the Principal Act.<lf>   (2) In any Act, in any instrument under an Act, in any award or other industrial determination or order or any industrial agreement, in any other order (whether executive, judicial or otherwise), in any contract, in any pleading in, or process issued in connection with, any legal or other proceedings, or in any other instrument, a reference to the Registrar of the High Court is taken, except in relation to matters that occurred before the commencement of this Part, to be a reference to the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.<lf>   (3) The person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office as the Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act:<lf>   (a) is taken to have been appointed at that commencement as the Senior Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as amended by this Division; and<lf>   (b) subject to subsection 26 (4) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement, holds office as the Senior Registrar on the terms and conditions on which he or she held office as the Registrar immediately before that commencement.<lf>   (4) Any other person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act continues to hold office after that commencement as if he or she had been appointed to that office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement.<lf>   Subsections 2 (3) and (4) of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993 provide as follows:<lf>   "(3) Subject to subsection (4), Part 6 commences on a day to be fixed by Proclamation.<lf>   "(4) If Part 6 does not commence under subsection (3) within the period of 6 months beginning on the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent, it commences on the first day after the end of that period."<lf>   As at 1 March 1994 no date had been fixed and the amendments are not incorporated in this reprint. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 42 Proper accounts to be kept </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   42\. The High Court shall cause to be kept proper accounts and records of the transactions and affairs relating to the administration of the affairs of the Court under section 17 and shall do all things necessary to ensure that all payments out of the moneys held by the Court are correctly made and properly authorized and that adequate control is maintained over the assets held by, or in the custody of, the Court and over the incurring of liabilities by the Court. </sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 43 Audit </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   43\. (1) The Auditor-General shall inspect and audit the accounts and records of financial transactions relating to the administration of the affairs of the High Court under section 17 and the records relating to assets held by, or in the custody of, the Court and shall forthwith draw the attention of the Minister to any irregularity disclosed by the inspection and audit that, in the opinion of the Auditor-General, is of sufficient importance to justify his so doing. 

<lf>   (2) The Auditor-General may, at his discretion, dispense with all or any part of the detailed inspection and audit of any accounts or records referred to in subsection (1). <p><lf>   (3) The Auditor-General shall, at least once in each financial year, report to the Minister the results of the inspection and audit carried out under subsection (1). <p><lf>   (4) The Auditor-General or a person authorized by him is entitled at all reasonable times to full and free access to all accounts and records maintained by the Court relating directly or indirectly to the receipt or payment of moneys, or to the acquisition, receipt, custody or disposal of assets, by the Court. <p><lf>   (5) The Auditor-General or a person authorized by him may make copies of, or take extracts from, any such accounts and records. <p><lf>   (6) The Auditor-General or a person authorized by him may require any person to furnish him with such information in the possession of the person or to which the person has access as the Auditor-General or authorized person considers necessary for the purposes of the functions of the Auditor-General under this Act, and the person shall comply with the requirement. <p><lf>   (7) A person who contravenes subsection (6) is guilty of an offence and is punishable, upon conviction, by a fine not exceeding $200\. </lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 44 Exemption from taxation </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   44\. The High Court is not subject to taxation under any law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory. </sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - PART VI  PART VI - MISCELLANEOUS </name>
</b>** 
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 45 Proceedings in respect of administration of the Court </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   45.*2* Any judicial or other proceedings relating to matters arising out of the administration of the affairs of the High Court under section 17, including any proceedings relating to matters arising out of the performance of the functions or the exercise of the powers of the Clerk under this Act, may be instituted by or against the Commonwealth, as the case requires. *2* Sections 4, 18-26, 28, 30, 33, 41 and 45 are amended by sections 27-34 only of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993\. Sections 28-34 provide as follows:<lf> Interpretation<lf>   28\. Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by inserting "appointed under subsection 26 (1)" after "Court" in the definitions of "Deputy Registrar", "Deputy Marshal" and "Marshal" in subsection (1);<lf>   (b) by omitting from subsection (1) the definitions of "Clerk" and "Registrar";<lf>   (c) by inserting in subsection (1) the following definitions:<lf>   "'Chief Executive and Principal Registrar' means the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar of the Court appointed under section 18;<lf>   "'Senior Registrar' means the Senior Registrar of the Court appointed under subsection 26 (1).".<lf> Changing references to Clerk to references to Chief Executive and Principal Registrar<lf>   29\. The following provisions of the Principal Act are amended by omitting "Clerk" (wherever occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar":<lf>   Section 18; subsections 19 (1), (2), (3) and (7); section 20; subsections 21 (1), (2) and (4); sections 22 and 23; subsections 24 (1) and (2); subsections 25 (1), (3), (4), (5) and (6); subsections 26 (3) and (6); sections 41 and 45.<lf> Officers and employees<lf>   30\. Section 26 of the Principal Act is amended:<lf>   (a) by omitting subsections (1) and (2) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(1) The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar is to appoint such other officers of the High Court as the Court considers necessary.";<lf>   (b) by omitting subsection (5) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(5) An appointment under subsection (1) is not a public office for the purposes of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973.";<lf>   (c) by omitting subsection (7) and substituting the following subsection:<lf>   "(7) The Senior Registrar and Deputy Registrars are to perform such duties in respect of proceedings in the Court as are assigned to them by Rules of Court, by an order of the Court or by the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.".<lf> Certain officers may administer oaths and affirmations<lf>   31\. Section 28 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting "The Registrar," and substituting "The Chief Executive and Principal Registrar, the Senior Registrar,".<lf> Registry<lf>   32\. Section 30 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subsection (2) "Registrar" and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Writs etc.<lf>   33\. Section 33 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from subparagraph (c) (i) "Registrar" (twice occurring) and substituting "Chief Executive and Principal Registrar".<lf> Transitional<lf>   34\. (1) To avoid doubt, section 29 is taken (in particular, for the purposes of section 25B of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901) to have altered the name of the office established by section 18 of the Principal Act.<lf>   (2) In any Act, in any instrument under an Act, in any award or other industrial determination or order or any industrial agreement, in any other order (whether executive, judicial or otherwise), in any contract, in any pleading in, or process issued in connection with, any legal or other proceedings, or in any other instrument, a reference to the Registrar of the High Court is taken, except in relation to matters that occurred before the commencement of this Part, to be a reference to the Chief Executive and Principal Registrar.<lf>   (3) The person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office as the Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act:<lf>   (a) is taken to have been appointed at that commencement as the Senior Registrar of the Court under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as amended by this Division; and<lf>   (b) subject to subsection 26 (4) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement, holds office as the Senior Registrar on the terms and conditions on which he or she held office as the Registrar immediately before that commencement.<lf>   (4) Any other person who, immediately before the commencement of this Part, held office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act continues to hold office after that commencement as if he or she had been appointed to that office under subsection 26 (1) of the Principal Act as in force after that commencement.<lf>   Subsections 2 (3) and (4) of the Law and Justice Legislation Amendment Act 1993 provide as follows:<lf>   "(3) Subject to subsection (4), Part 6 commences on a day to be fixed by Proclamation.<lf>   "(4) If Part 6 does not commence under subsection (3) within the period of 6 months beginning on the day on which this Act receives the Royal Assent, it commences on the first day after the end of that period."<lf>   As at 1 March 1994 no date had been fixed and the amendments are not incorporated in this reprint. </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 46 Exercise of powers of the Court in administrative matters </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   46\. (1) Subject to this section, the powers of the High Court under this Act may be exercised by the Justices or by a majority of them. 

<lf>   (2) The Court may, either generally or as otherwise provided by the instrument of delegation, by writing signed by the Justices or a majority of them, delegate all or any of the powers of the Court under this Act (except this power of delegation) to any one or more of the Justices. <p><lf>   (3) A power so delegated, when exercised by the delegate or delegates, shall, for the purposes of this Act, be deemed to have been exercised by the Court. <p><lf>   (4) A delegation under this section does not prevent the exercise of a power by the Court. <p><lf>   (5) A decision of the Court, or of a delegate or delegates of the Court, in exercise of a power under this Act may be made known by the Chief Justice, who may give any directions or take any other action necessary to give effect to the decision. </lf></p></lf></p></lf></p></lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 47 Annual reports and financial statements </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   47\. (1) The High Court shall, as soon as practicable after 30 June in each year, prepare and submit to the Minister a report relating to the administration of the affairs of the Court under section 17 during the year that ended on that 30 June, together with financial statements in respect of that year in such form as the Minister for Finance approves. 

<lf>   (2) Before submitting financial statements to the Minister under subsection (1), the Court shall submit them to the Auditor-General, who shall report to the Minister:<lf>   (a) whether, in his opinion, the statements are based on proper accounts and records;<lf>   (b) whether the statements are in agreement with the accounts and records;<lf>   (c) whether, in his opinion, the receipt, expenditure and investment of moneys, and the acquisition and disposal of assets, by the Court during the year have been in accordance with this Act; and<lf>   (d) as to such other matters arising out of the statements as the Auditor-General considers should be reported to the Minister. <p><lf>   (3) The Minister shall cause a copy of the report and financial statements of the Court together with a copy of the report of the Auditor-General to be laid before each House of the Parliament within 15 sitting days of that House after their receipt by the Minister. </lf></p></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf>
</sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SECT 48 Rules of Court </name>
</b>** 

## SECT
<sect>   48\. The power of the Justices or of a majority of them to make Rules of Court under section 86 of the Judiciary Act 1903 extends to making any Rules of Court required or permitted by this Act to be made or necessary or convenient to be made for carrying into effect the provisions of this Act. </sect>
**<b>

### <name>HIGH COURT OF AUSTRALIA ACT 1979 - SCHEDULE </name>
</b>** 

## SCH
<sch>                                   SCHEDULE                      Section 11<lf>   I,                                        , do swear that I will bear<lf> true allegiance to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth the Second, Her Heirs and<lf> Successors according to law, that I will well and truly serve Her in the<lf> Office of Chief Justice (or Justice) of the High Court of Australia and<lf> that I will do right to all manner of people according to law without fear<lf> or favour, affection or ill-will. So Help me God]<lf>                                     or<lf>   I,                                        , do solemnly and sincerely<lf> promise and declare that (as above, omitting the words "So help me God]").<lf> </lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></lf></sch>
